# 1. Introduction

This chapter introduces Migration Center and explains how to install it. This chapter consists of the following sections:

- Overview

- System Requirements

- Installation and Uninstallation

### Overview

Migration Center is a database migration tool that either directly or indirectly copies generally compatible database objects and data. Most databases comply with international standards, but no database is exempt from manual database migration. Generally, manual database migration is complicated, time-consuming, and error-prone. Migration Center helps users migrate databases with only a few mouse clicks in Graphic User Interface (GUI) mode, and offers Command Line Interface (CLI) mode as well.

The major benefits of using this tool are:

1. Database objects of the original database can be conveniently migrated to the target database (Alibase or Oracle) without any difficulties.
2. Directly copies data of a source database to Altibase with a JDBC driver (the most popular and widely available interface for DBMS nowadays).
3. Exports data to external files for later use in data importing to Altibase with iLoader. 
4. Provides parallel execution options to shorten the migration process. By default, Migration Center automatically balances data migration load between a number of threads and also enables the user to manually split data over multiple threads. 
5. Supports data type mapping of different data types between heterogeneous databases. Provides default type mapping for convenience and user-defined data type mapping for flexibility. 
6. Provides GUI mode for better usability and CLI mode for special circumstances. 
7. For schema migration, enables the user to modify DDL SQL statements for migrating database objects.

### System Requirements

This section discusses the system requirements for Migration Center and compatible database management systems.

- Hardware Requirements
- Software Requirements
- Compatible Database Systems

#### Hardware Requirements

##### GUI Mode

- CPU: Pentium III 800MHz or better

- Main memory: 512MB or more

- Disk: 150MB or more free space

- Screen resolution: 1024 x 768 pixels or higher

##### CLI Mode

- CPU: Pentium III 800MHz or better 
- Main memory: 512MB or more 
- Disk: 150MB or more free space

#### Software Requirements

- Java Development Kit (JDK), or Java Runtime Environment (JRE) 8 or later

Migration Center is a pure Java application that uses Swing for GUI mode. It runs regardless of the user’s hardware and operating system, but relies on the JRE. The user is recommended to install Oracle, or IBM Java 8 or later. To run Migration Center in GUI mode, the user’s environment must support Java Swing.

Since Migration Center is bundled with the JRE 8 for the 64-bit Microsoft Windows system, these users do not need to install the JRE. However, other operating system users must configure the JRE and related environment variables appropriately.

#### Compatible Database Systems

##### Destination Database

- Altibase 6.5.1 or later

##### Source Database

- Altibase: 4.3.9 or later

- Oracle Database: 9i ~ 11g

- Microsoft SQL Server: 2005 ~ 2012

- Oracle MySQL: 5.0 ~ 5.7

- Informix: 11.50

- Oracle TimesTen: 7.0, 11.2

- CUBRID: 8.4.1 ~ 9.3.5 (ISO-8859-1, UTF-8 charset)

- Tibero: 4sp1 ~ 6

- PostgreSQL: 9.5.3

##### JDBC Driver

Migration Center is available for different versions of Altibase and other databases. This tool uses a JDBC driver for database connection, so it is important to prepare the appropriate JDBC driver for both source and destination databases. For user convenience, some JDBC drivers that are appropriate for use with supported databases are provided with Migration Center.

Please note that for legal reasons, the Microsoft SQL Server JDBC driver file, MySQL Connector/J file, informix JDBC Driver file, and TimesTen JDBC driver file are not included in the package. Also, since TimesTen only supports type 2 driver, the migration must be performed on a machine that the TimesTen Client Package is installed.

Users can download the appropriate JDBC driver file from the following site:

1. Microsoft does not support the JDBC driver for SQL Server 2005 according to the Microsoft Support Lifecycle(MSL) policy, and it also does not provide download link. Therefore, users should use the JDBC driver included in the database product they are using.

2. Microsoft JDBC Driver for SQL Server 2008, for 2008 R2, for 2012 can be downloaded from the link below. Since Migration Center has been tested with JDBC driver version 6.0 and JRE 7 environment, it is recommended for users to use the same driver version and JRE version. Also in Linux OS, the value of JAVA_HOME environment variable must be set to the path where the JRE 7 or later is installed. If you want to use a version other than JDBC Driver 6.0, you need to check the driver version, compatible SQL Server version, and supported JRE version in the Microsoft JDBC Driver for SQL Server Support Matrix.  
   Download Microsoft JDBC Driver for SQL Server:  
   <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/connect/jdbc/download-microsoft-jdbc-driver-for-sql-server?view=sql-server-2017>  
   Microsoft JDBC Driver for SQL Server Support Matrix:  
   <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/connect/jdbc/microsoft-jdbc-driver-for-sql-server-support-matrix?view=sql-server-2017>

3. Oracle MySQL Connector/J  
   <http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/connector/j/>

4. Informix JDBC Driver  
   <http://www14.software.ibm.com/webapp/download/search.jsp?go=y&rs=ifxjdbc>

5. Oracle TimesTen  
   <http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/database/database-technologies/timesten/downloads/index.html>

6. CUBRID  
   <http://www.cubrid.org/?mid=downloads&item=jdbc_driver>

7. Tibero  
   <https://technet.tmaxsoft.com/>

### Installation and Uninstallation

Migration Center can be downloaded from Altibase’s Customer Center at http://altibase.com/support-center/en/. 

Migration Center is provided in zip or tar.gz file format. This file contains the executable file and some JDBC drivers.

To install, simply unzip the file. The generated directory contains the projects, lib, conf, and images subdirectories, other directories, and files (including migcenter.bat and migcenter.sh). Move this folder to a desired location, and Migration Center is ready for use. 

To uninstall, simply delete the Migration Center directory.

<br/>

