# 1. Introduction

This chapter introduces Replication Manager and explains how to install it. It contains the following sections:

- Overview
- System Requirements
- Installation and Uninstallation

### Overview

Replication Manager is a graphical tool for managing replication objects on Altibase. Altibase Database Administrators typically need to connect to all instances of Altibase on which replication objects are active. Using a Command Line Interface (CLI) such as iSQL, they need to jump around between console windows to perform replication tasks such as stopping, modifying, and starting target replication objects. This requires them to memorize the status of, and relationships between, replication objects, meaning that the burden of replication management grows exponentially as the number of replication objects increases linearly. Thanks to its Graphical User Interface (GUI), Replication Manager can help DBAs perform these tasks easily while visualizing all of their replication nodes in the same screen.

The major benefits of this tool are:

1. Work with multiple versions of Altibase using the same program. 
2. Check the status of replication objects and the relationships between them at a glance. 
3. Manage replication objects with the click of a mouse.
4. Check the properties of replication objects and related objects. 
5. Monitor replication pairs and analyze their status, almost intuitively

### System Requirements

This section discusses the system requirements for Replication Manager and compatible Altibase version.

#### Hardware Requirements

1. CPU: 800MHz Pentium or better

2. Main Memory: 512MB or more

3. Disk: 50MB or more free spaces (in addition to space required for the JRE)

4. Screen Resolution: 1024 x 768 pixels or higher

#### Software Requirements

##### Supported OS and Platforms
Replication Manager is distributed in Windows and Linux-compatible packages. 

| Package Name                                        | Operating System | Graphic System | JRE              |
| :-------------------------------------------------- | :--------------: | :------------: | :-----------: |
| ReplicationManager-win32.win32.x86.zip              | Windows          | win32          | JRE 6 included   |
| ReplicationManager-linux.gtk.x86.zip (JRE included) | Linux            | GTK            | Java 6 or higher |

##### Java Requirement
- Java Development Kit (JDK), or Java Runtime Environment (JRE) 6 or later

Since Replication Manager for the Microsoft Windows system is bundled with the JRE 6, users do not need to install the JRE. However, other operating system users must configure the JRE and related environment variables appropriately to use Java.

#### Compatible Altibase version

- Altibase: 4.3.9 or higher

Since Replication Manager can work with different versions of ALTIBASE HDB at the same time, users must use the JDBC driver file appropriate for the ALTIBASE HDB to which you are connecting.

Please refer to [Importing a JDBC Driver File](#importing-a-jdbc-driver-file).

### Installation and Uninstallation

#### Download

Replication Manager can be downloaded from Altibase Customer Center at http://support.altibase.com/en/product. Replication Manager is provided in ZIP file format. 

#### Installation

To install it, simply unzip the file in the desired directory.

#### Uninstallation

To unistall it, simply delete the directory in which Replication Manager is installed. 

<br>

