# 1. Introducing dataCompJ

This chapter introduces dataCompJ and explains how to install it. This chapter consists of the following sections:

- Overview

- System Requirements

- Installation and Uninstallation

### Overview

Altibase dataCompJ is a utility designed to guarantee data consistency between two heterogeneous databases and resolve data inconsistency if any. dataCompJ compares Altibase with another heterogeneous database on a table-by-table basis, and outputs information on any inconsistency it detects. Also, it offers an efficient feature for synchronizing two databases by applying the inconsistent data to slave database in the event of data inconsistency.

Data managed by dataCompJ are replicated by Adapter for Oracle or Adapter for JDBC provided by Altibase.

A proper use of Altibase dataCompJ would be a cornerstone of effective data management with advantageous usability along with its advanced technical performance.

### System Requirements

This section discusses the system requirements for dataCompJ and compatible database management systems.

#### Hardware Requirements

- CPU: Pentium III 800MHz or better
- Main memory: Minimum 512MB,  4GB or more recommended
- Disk: 50MB or more free space

#### Software Requirements

- Oracle, OpenJDK or IBM Java Runtime Environment 8 or higher

dataCompJ is a pure Java-based client application relying on the JAVA Runtime Environment (JRE) instead of the client's hardware or an operating system.

#### Compatible Database Systems

##### Master DB

- Altibase: Altibase 5.3.3 or later

##### Slave DB

- Oracle: Oracle 9i or later
- MariaDB: MariaDB 5.5.x or later

Refer to [Terms for dataCompJ](#terms-for-datacompj) section for more detailed definitions of Master/Slave DB.

dataCompJ can be used with Altibase and various other databases. Since this tool uses JDBC driver to connect to database, the JDBC driver compatible with original and target database is required. Currently JDBC driver for Oracle, ojdbc5.jar, is provided along with dataCompJ for your convenience.

#### Intallation and Uninstallation

dataCompJ can be downloaded from the official [Altibase Customer Support portal](#http://altibase.com/support-center/en/). It is provided as a zip or tar.gz file in the name of dataCompJCli which includes executable files and JDBC drivers.

dataCompJ is installed once dataCompJCli is decompressed. Subdirectory of JDBC including dataCompJCli.sh and XML file exist in the directory created as a result of the decompression.

In order to uninstall dataCompJ, delete the directory in which dataCompJ is installed.

<br>

