# 1. iLoader Overview

### Introducing iLoader

#### What is iLoader?

iLoader is a utility provided by Altibase for downloading or uploading data in Altibase in units of tables. Downloaded data will be saved as a text file, and the FORM file containing the structure information of the table is necessary.

#### Usage

iLoader is mostly used for database migration or when backing up tables. However, because database schema and catalog information are not saved, care must be taken when using iLoader as a backup utility.

#### Functionality

-   FORM file Creation  
    For creating FORM files for storing information about tables to be downloaded or uploaded.

-   Downloading Data  
    FORM files are used to save the database table data in files.
    
-   Uploading Data  
    FORM files are used to save the database table data in files.

#### Advantages

The advantages of iLoader are as follows.

-   Data can be uploaded from one or more files. 
-   Multiple input records can be uploaded to a single table. 
-   Data can be uploaded to multiple tables at once. 
-   Data can be appended to tables that already contain data, or can replace the data therein. 
-   Data input and management can be made more systematic.

#### How to Install iLoader

iLoader is automatically installed when the Altibase package is installed. The executable file is located in:

```
$ALTIBASE_HOME/bin
```



#### iLoader Settings

In order to connect to the server, iLoader requires the following information:

-   ALTIBASE_HOME  
    A path to a server or client installation

-   server_name  
    The name (or IP address) of a computer on which Altibase Server is running

-   port_no  
    The port number to be used when connecting via TCP or IPC

-   user_id  
    A user ID registered in the database

-   password  
    The password corresponding to the User ID

-   NLS_USE  
    The character set with which to display retrieved data to the user

ALTIBASE_HOME can only be set using an environment variable, while the other settings may be made using command-line options. (For detailed information, please refer to “Batch Mode”.) 

The ALTIBASE_HOME environment variable is typically set automatically when the server is installed, but, in the case of the client, must be set manually by the user. We strongly suggest that you verify that this setting has been made properly, as the application may not run correctly if this setting is not made. 

port_no and NLS_USE can be set using the corresponding environment variables or the server settings file (altibase.properties). If these settings are made via all three methods, they will take priority as follows, in descending order:

1. command-line options

2. environment variables (ALTIBASE_PORT_NO, ALTIBASE_NLS_USE)

3. server settings file (altibase.properties)

Therefore, when it is desired to connect using options other than those that have been previously set, the command-line options can be used, thus making it unnecessary to change the settings in the server settings file or the environment variables. 

If these options have not been set, when iLoader is executed for the first time, the user will be prompted to enter the corresponding variables. At this time, it is essential to enter values that are valid and follow the proper format, otherwise iLoader may not run properly. 

However, if the NLS_USE option in particular has not been set, no command prompt will appear at the time of execution. Instead, US7ASCII will be used, and a connection attempt will be made. In such instances, if the server is not using US7ASCII, the application will not execute properly, or some of the users’ data could become corrupted. Thus it is paramount that NLS_USE be set to the value that matches the usage environment.

In order to ensure stable iSQL operation, we strongly recommend that the following environment variables be set:

-   ALTIBASE_HOME:  the path to a server or client installation

-   ALTIBASE_PORT_NO: the port number to use to connect to the server

-   ALTIBASE_NLS_USE: the character set to use to display retrieved data to the user

-   PATH: the path containing the executable file, which must equal $ALTIBASE_HOME/bin

#### Environment Variables

##### ALTIBASE_HOME

This is the directory in which installed packages are located.

ALTIBASE_HOME is the environment variable which must be configured in order to used iLoader. Although it is automatically configured when the server is installed in general, but the user should directly configure since there might be a chance of conflict with the environment variables in the server.

##### ALTIBASE_PORT_NO

This indicates the port number on the server with which a connection is to be established. This can be set using the -PORT option or altibase.properties. 

If no designated port number can be found (in descending order of precedence) in the - PORT option, in the environment variable ALTIBASE_PORT_NO, or in altibase.properties, a prompt to enter the port number will appear.

##### ALTIBASE_SSL_PORT_NO

The port number of the server iLoader is to connect to on SSL/TLS. 

The -PORT option, environment variables, ALTIBASE_SSL_PORT_NO, the properties in the altibase.properties file take priority in this order as the port number in SSL. On omission, the command prompt asks the user to enter the port number. 

##### ALTIBASE_NLS_USE

This sets the character set that is used when data are downloaded or uploaded.

-   When downloading: data received from the server are saved in the specified character set. 
-   When uploading: sets the character set for data to be transmitted to the server 

Note: when uploading data, if the character set of the database is different from the value specified using the ALTIBASE_NLS_USE environment variable, the data may not be uploaded normally. Please be sure to set the correct value for this variable.

The client character set can also be set using the NLS_USE option in Form files, - NLS_USE option, variable NLS_USE or in altibase.properties. 

If NLS_USE is not specified using the DATA_NLS_USE(only when in option is applied), -NLS_USE option, the environment variable ALTIBASE_NLS_USE, or altibase.properties (in descending order of precedence), then US7ASCII is used as the default character set.



