# 1.ID Error Code

### FATAL

**0x00012 ( 18) idERR_FATAL_idc_SHM_ATTACH Unable to attach shared memory**

**Cause:** Failed to invoke the shmat() function.

**Action:** Verify that you have permission to access shared memory. Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x00013 ( 19) idERR_FATAL_idc_SHM_CTL Unable to delete shared memory**

**Cause:** Failed to invoke the shmctl() function.

**Action:** Verify that you have permission to access shared memory. Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x00014 ( 20) idERR_FATAL_idc_SEM_CTL Unable to delete a semaphore**

**Cause:** Failed to invoke the semctl() function.

**Action:** Verify that you have permission to access the semaphore. Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x00015 ( 21) idERR_FATAL_idc_SEM_OP Unable to execute operations on a semaphore**

**Cause:** Failed to invoke the semop() function.

**Action:** Check the error number from altibase_boot.log and verify that the semaphore group exists.

**0x00017 ( 23) idERR_FATAL_idc_CHANNEL_NOT_CREATED Unable to delete the communication channel** 

**Cause:** The system tried to delete an invalid communication channel.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x00018 ( 24) idERR_FATAL_idc_INVALID_CHANNEL_TYPE Unsupported communication channel.** 

*Cause: The system tried to use an unsupported communication channel.

*Action: Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x00019 ( 25) idERR_FATAL_idc_MUTEX_LOCK Failed to invoke the mutex_lock() system function** 

*Cause: Failed to invoke the mutex_lock() system function.

*Action: Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x0001A ( 26) idERR_FATAL_idc_MUTEX_UNLOCK Failed to invoke the mutex_unlock() system function** 

*Cause: Failed to invoke the mutex_unlock() system function.

*Action: Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x0001B ( 27) idERR_FATAL_idc_CLOSE_FAILED Unable to close the communication channel** 

*Cause: Failed to invoke the close() system function.

*Action: Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x0001C ( 28) idERR_FATAL_idc_SOCKET_SHUTDOWN_FAILED Unable to shut down the communication channel** 

*Cause: Failed to invoke the shutdown() system function.

*Action: Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x0001D ( 29) idERR_FATAL_idc_INET_SOCKET_CREATE_FAILED Unable to create an INET socket** 

*Cause: Failed to invoke the socket() function on an INET socket.

*Action: Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x0001E ( 30) idERR_FATAL_idc_UNIX_SOCKET_CREATE_FAILED Unable to create a UNIX domain socket**

Cause: Failed to invoke the socket() function on a UNIX domain socket

Action: Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x0001F ( 31) idERR_FATAL_idc_SVC_INET_BIND_ERROR Unable to bind the INET socket.(<0%d>)**

**Cause:** Failed to invoke the bind() function on the INET socket because the port was already in use by another process.

**Action:** Verify that the port is not being used by another process. If it is, close that process or select a different port.

**0x00020 ( 32) idERR_FATAL_idc_SVC_UNIX_BIND_ERROR Unable to bind the UNIX domain socket**

**Cause:** Failed to invoke the bind() function on a UNIX domain socket. The port was in use by another process.

**Action:** Verify that the port is not being used by another process. If it is, close that process or select a different port.

**0x00021 ( 33) idERR_FATAL_idc_SVC_INET_LISTEN_ERROR Failed to invoke the listen() system function** 

**Cause:** Failed to invoke the listen() function on the INET socket

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x00022 ( 34) idERR_FATAL_idc_SVC_UNIX_LISTEN_ERROR Unable to invoke the listen() function on the UNIX domain socket**

**Cause:** Failed to invoke the listen() function on the UNIX domain socket

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x00023 ( 35) idERR_FATAL_idc_FD_NONBLOCK_FAILED Unable to set the socket to non-blocking mode.** 

**Cause:** Failed to invoke the fcntl() function to set non-blocking mode on a file descriptor.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x00024 ( 36) idERR_FATAL_idc_SYS_ACCEPT_FAILED Unable to accept the socket** 

**Cause:** Failed to invoke the accept() system function

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x00029 ( 41) idERR_FATAL_idc_SYS_SELECT_FAILED Failed to invoke the select() system function** 

**Cause:** Failed to invoke the select() system function.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x0002A ( 42) idERR_FATAL_WRITELINE_ERROR Unable to communicate with the db admin** 

**Cause:** Failed to invoke the timed_writeline() system function.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x0002B ( 43) idERR_FATAL_SIGMASK_ERROR Unable to mask the signal** 

**Cause:** Failed to invoke the pthread_sigmask() system function.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x0002C ( 44) idERR_FATAL_FILE_OPEN Unable to open a file [<0%s>]**

**Cause:** The path of the file is invalid or the storage manager does not have permission to open the file.

**Action:** Verify that the path and file name are correct and that you have read/write permission for the file.

**0x0002D ( 45) idERR_FATAL_THR_NOT_CREATED_BUT_USED No thread object was used.** 

**Cause:** Internal Bug

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x0002F ( 47) idERR_FATAL_THR_NOT_STARTED Thread object did not start after <0%u> seconds.** 

**Cause:** Internal Bug

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x00032 ( 50) idERR_FATAL_IDU_MEMORY_ALLOCATION Memory allocation failed**

**Cause:** Insufficient memory.

**Action:** Verify that the system has enough available memory.

**0x00033 ( 51) idERR_FATAL_ThrMutexInit Failed to invoke the mutex_init() system function** 

**Cause:** The system failed to initialize a mutex.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x00034 ( 52) idERR_FATAL_ThrMutexDestroy Failed to invoke the mutex_destroy() system function** 

**Cause:** The system failed to destroy a mutex.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x00035 ( 53) idERR_FATAL_ThrMutexLock Failed to invoke the mutex_lock() system function** 

**Cause:** The system failed to lock a mutex.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x00036 ( 54) idERR_FATAL_ThrMutexUnlock Failed to invoke the mutex_unlock() system function** 

**Cause:** The system failed to unlock a mutex.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x00037 (     55) idERR_FATAL_ThrCondInit Failed to invoke the cond_init() system function**

**Cause:** The system failed to invoke the cond_init() function.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x00038 (     56) idERR_FATAL_ThrCondSignal Failed to invoke the cond_signal() system function**

**Cause:** The system failed to invoke the cond_signal() function.

**Action:**  Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x00039 (     57) idERR_FATAL_ThrMutexTrylock Failed to invoke the mutex_trylock() system function**

**Cause:** Another thread has already locked the mutex.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x0003A (     58) idERR_FATAL_ThrCondDestroy Failed to invoke the cond_destroy() system function**

**Cause:** The system failed to remove a condition variable.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x0003B ( 59) idERR_FATAL_LongFileName Filename too long**

**Cause:** The file name is too long.

**Action:** Shorten the file name.

**0x0003D ( 61) idERR_FATAL_SysOpen Unable to invoke the open() function on [<0%s>]** 

**Cause:** The system failed to open the file.

**Action:** Verify that the file exists and that the operating system has not already opened the maximum possible number of files.

**0x0003E ( 62) idERR_FATAL_SysClose Unable to invoke the close() function on [<0%s>]** 

**Cause:** The system failed to close the file.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x0003F ( 63) idERR_FATAL_SysRead Unable to invoke the read() function on [<0%s>]**

**Cause:** The system failed to read the file because the disk is physically damaged or a bad sector has occurred.

**Action:** Execute the fsck command to troubleshoot and fix any filesystem errors.

**0x00041 ( 65) idERR_FATAL_Sysfstat Unable to invoke the fstat() function on [<0%s>]**

**Cause:** The system failed to call the fstat() function.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x00042 ( 66) idERR_FATAL_SyncError Failed to sync a file for [<0%s>].** 

**Cause:** Failed to invoke the sync() function.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x00045 ( 69) idERR_FATAL_idm_Sort_Table_Shortage Sort table shortage** 

**Cause:** Too many children in idmModule

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x00046 ( 70) idERR_FATAL_idm_Invalid_idmModule Invalid idmModule** 

**Cause:** An invalid idmModule exists.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x0004A ( 74) idERR_FATAL_SysDirectIO Unable to invoke the directio() function on [<0%s>].** 

**Cause:** The system failed to invoke the directio() function on the file

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x00064 ( 100) idERR_FATAL_ThrCondWait Failed to invoke the cond_wait() system function** 

**Cause:** The system failed to invoke the cond_wait() function.

**Action:**  Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x00065 ( 101) idERR_FATAL_idc_UNIX_PATH_TRUNCATED Unix domain socket path truncated.**

**Cause:** A Unix domain socket path has been truncated.

**Action:** The Altibase socket path is too long. Shorten it.

**0x0006D ( 109) idERR_FATAL_FILE_CLOSE Unable to close a file** 

**Cause:** An invalid File Handle was specified.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x00070 ( 112) idERR_FATAL_DirectIO_Invalid_Argument Invalid argument for direct I/O write or read operation on file <0%s> (arguments: offset:<1%lu> buffer:<2%lu> size:<3%lu>)** 

**Cause:** An argument for the direct I/O write or read operation was invalid.

**Action:** Verify that the arguments for the direct I/O read or write operation are valid.

**0x00071 ( 113) idERR_FATAL_WrongDirectIOPageSize The page size for Direct I/O should be exactly 512, 1024, 2048, 4096, or 8192.**

**Cause:** The DIRECT_IO_PAGE_SIZE property is not set to an acceptable value.

**Action:** Set the DIRECT_IO_PAGE_SIZE property to one of 512, 1024(1K), 2048(2K), 4096(4K), or 8192(8K).

**0x00072 ( 114) idERR_FATAL_SysSeek Unable to invoke the seek() function on [<0%s>]**

**Cause:** The system failed to change the access position in the file because the disk is physically damaged or a bad sector has occurred.

**Action:** Execute the fsck command to troubleshoot and fix any filesystem errors.

**0x0008C ( 140) idERR_FATAL_MmapFail Failed to invoke the mmap() system function** 

**Cause:** The system failed to map the log file.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x000AD ( 173) idERR_FATAL_THREAD_JOINERROR System error while joining**

**Cause:** The system failed to join a mutex.

**Action:** Check the error number from the altibase_boot.log file and take appropriate action.

**0x000B0 ( 176) idERR_FATAL_SysShmDt Failed to invoke the shmdt() system function** 

**Cause:** The system failed to detach a shared memory region from a process.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x000B1 ( 177) idERR_FATAL_Shm_No_Permission No permission for the shared memory database** 

**Cause:** A shared memory region has already been created with the same key but a different UID.

**Action:** Please remove the shared memory region, or create a shared memory region with another key.

**0x000B5 ( 181) idERR_FATAL_PROCESS_CHECK_ALIVE Unable to check if a process is alive.**

**Cause:** Failed to invoke the semctl() function

**Action:** Please verify that you have permission to access the semaphore and send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x000B6 ( 182) idERR_FATAL_SEM_DELETE Unable to delete the semaphore.**

**Cause:** Failed to invoke the semctl() function

**Action:** Please verify that you have permission to access the semaphore and send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x000B7 ( 183) idERR_FATAL_SEM_GET Unable to create or get a semaphore.**

**Cause:** Failed to invoke the semop() function

**Action:** Please verify the error number and make sure that the semaphore group exists.

**0x000B8 ( 184) idERR_FATAL_Systhrjoin Failed to invoke the thr_join() system function**

**Cause:** The system failed to join threads.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x000B9 ( 185) idERR_FATAL_SYSTEM_PROCESS_ALREADY_STARTED [0%s] Process has been already started.**

**Cause:** System process which is one of Deamon or WServer has been started before this operation.

**Action:** Check the other system process is alive or started.

**0x000BA ( 186) idERR_FATAL_UNDO_THREAD_BY_WATCH_DOG The undo operation of a thread in a dead process is failed.**

**Cause:** There is an unexpected error while doing an undo operation of a thread.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x000BB ( 187) idERR_FATAL_WATCHDOG_THEAD_ABNORMAL_EXIT The watchdog thread faced an unexpected error.** 

**Cause:** There is an unexpected error in the watchdog thread.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x000BC ( 188) idERR_FATAL_UNCOMPATIBLE_SHARED_MEMORY The version of the shared memory is not compatible with the version of the shared memory manager. Shared Memory Version => [ Version ID = <0%s> ] Shared Memory Manager=>[ Version ID = <1%s> ]** 

**Cause:** The shared memory created before is no compatitle with the current shared memory manager.

**Action:** Please remove shared memory created by Altibase and restart Altibase.

**0x000BD ( 189) idERR_FATAL_UNDO_PROCESS_BY_WATCH_DOG The undo operation for a dead process is failed.** 

**Cause:** There is an unexpected error in the watchdog undo thread for a dead process.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x000BE ( 190) idERR_FATAL_ATTACH_SHARED_MEMORY_MGR The attach operation for a shared memory is failed.**

**Cause:** There is an unexpected error while doing a attach operation of a shared memory.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x000BF ( 191) idERR_FATAL_INVALID_SHARED_MEMORY_BLOCK_SIZE The shared memory block size[0%u] is invalid.**

**Cause:** The shared memory block size is invalid.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x000C2 ( 194) idERR_FATAL_INVALID_SHM_SEGCOUNT The max number of shared memory segments is invalid.**

**Cause:** The maximum of the segment count is 0.

**Action:** Check SHM_MAX_SIZE and SHM_CHUNK_SIZE since the number of the max shared memory segments is calculated by SHM_MAX_SIZE / SHM_CHUNK_SIZE.

**0x000C3 ( 195) idERR_FATAL_INVALID_ELEMENT_SIZE The number of elements in a chunk of a mempool is invalid.** 

**Cause:** The number of elements in a chunk of a mempool is 0.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x000C5 ( 197) idERR_FATAL_REGISTER_NEW_PROCESS_DISABLED A process can not access a database in a shared memory.**

**Cause:** Database is a invalid state to be accessed by a process.

**Action:** Check the system process is shutting down or the state of a shared memory area.

**0x000C7 ( 199) idERR_FATAL_REMOVE_SYSTEM_SHARED_MEMORY_SEGMENT The remove operation of a system shared memory segment is failed.**

**Cause:** There is a process to attach a system shared memory segment.

**Action:** Check if there is a process to attach a system shared memory segment.

**0x000C8 ( 200) idERR_FATAL_Invalid_SHM_DB_KEY When the SHM_DB_KEY value is 0, a shared memory database cannot be used. Set the SHM_DB_KEY property.**

**Cause:** SHM_DB_KEY value is 0.

**Action:** Please set the SHM_DB_KEY property.

**0x000CB ( 203) idERR_FATAL_NOT_OWNER_OF_SHARED_MEMORY Try to access a shared memory chunk which is not owned: SHMKEY is <0%d>.**

**Cause:** Try to access a shared memory chunk which is not owned.

**Action:** Please check if there is already created shared memory associated with SHM_DB_KEY.

**0x000CC ( 204) idERR_FATAL_CREATE_SYSTEM_SEGMENT Cannot create the system segment.**

**Cause:** Unavailable system resource.

**Action:** Please check your system.

**0x000D2 ( 210) idERR_FATAL_CHANGE_OWNER_OF_SHARED_MEMORY_SEGMENT Cannot change the owner of the shared memory segment.**

**Cause:** Failed to invoke the shmctl() function.

**Action:** Verify that you have permission to access shared memory. Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase's Support Center([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

### ABORT

**0x01001 ( 4097) idERR_ABORT_idnCharacterSetNotFound No character set was found.** 

**Cause:** No character set was found.

**Action:** Specify a valid value for the NLS_USE property.

**0x01002 ( 4098) idERR_ABORT_idnInvalidCharacter Invalid character in use**

**Cause:** An invalid character is being used.

**Action:** Verify that every character in the input string is a valid character.

**0x01003 ( 4099) idERR_ABORT_idnReachEnd Unexpected end of string**

**Cause:** Unexpected end of string.

**Action:** Verify that the form of the string is legal.

**0x01004 (   4100) idERR_ABORT_idnNotFound Unable to find a string to search** 

**Cause:** The system failed to find a string to search.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x01005 (   4101) idERR_ABORT_idnTooLarge The input string is too long.** 

**Cause:** Internal server error. The input string is too long.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x01006 ( 4102) idERR_ABORT_idnLikeEscape Invalid use of escape characters in LIKE predicate.** 

**Cause:** The server has detected the invalid use of escape characters in a LIKE predicate.

**Action:** Verify that the use of escape characters in the LIKE predicate is syntactically correct.

**0x01007 ( 4103) idERR_ABORT_idaNullValue A NULL value is not allowed for this data type.**

**Cause:** This data type cannot have a NULL value.

**Action:** Verify that there is no NULL value in the field.

**0x01008 ( 4104) idERR_ABORT_idaInvalidNumeric Unable to cast the string to the INTEGER type.**

**Cause:** It is impossible to cast the string to the INTEGER type.

**Action:** Change the string appropriately.

**0x01009 ( 4105) idERR_ABORT_idaInvalidNibble Unable to cast the string to the NIBBLE type.**

**Cause:** It is impossible to cast the string to the NIBBLE type.

**Action:** Change the string appropriately.

**0x0100A ( 4106) idERR_ABORT_idaInvalidBytes Unable to cast the string to the BYTE type.**

**Cause:** It is impossible to cast the string to the BYTE type.

**Action:** Change the string appropriately.

**0x0100B ( 4107) idERR_ABORT_idaOverflow Value exceeds range supported by type**

**Cause:** The value is out of the range supported by the type.

**Action:** Change the input value so that it falls within the range of values supported by the given type.

**0x0100C ( 4108) idERR_ABORT_idaDivideByZero Division by zero**

**Cause:** An attempt is being made to divide a value by zero.

**Action:** Verify that the value is not being divided by zero.

**0x0100D ( 4109) idERR_ABORT_idaLengthOutbound Length exceeded**

**Cause:** The data type length has been exceeded.

**Action:** Verify that the length of the data type is correct.

**0x0100E ( 4110) idERR_ABORT_idaPrecisionOutbound Precision exceeded**

**Cause:** The precision of the data type has been exceeded.

**Action:** Verify that the precision of the data type is correct.

**0x0100F ( 4111) idERR_ABORT_idaScaleOutbound Scale exceeded**

**Cause:** The scale of the data type has been exceeded.

**Action:** Verify that the scale of the data type is correct.

**0x01010 ( 4112) idERR_ABORT_idaLargerThanPrecision Precision exceeded**

**Cause:** The precision of the data type has been exceeded.

**Action:** Verify that the precision of the data type is correct.

**0x01011 ( 4113) idERR_ABORT_idaInvalidParameter Invalid Argument**

**Cause:** Invalid argument.

**Action:** Verify that the arguments are valid in context.

**0x01025 ( 4133) idERR_ABORT_idc_MARSHAL_BUFFER_FULL Insufficient communication buffer**

**Cause:** The communication buffer is not large enough.

**Action:** Verify that the communication buffer size specified in the property file is greater than 64kB.

**0x01026 ( 4134) idERR_ABORT_idc_SOCKET_CLOSED Socket communication error**

**Cause:** The socket of the client has already been closed.

**Action:** Debug the client program.

**0x01027 ( 4135) idERR_ABORT_idc_ERR_FULL_IPC_CHANNEL No remaining IPC channels (MAX=<0%d>, USED=<1%d>, BUFSIZE=<2%d>)**

**Cause:** All IPC channels have been allocated to clients.

**Action:** Use the INET/UNIX Domain channel or create more IPC channels.

**0x01028 ( 4136) idERR_ABORT_idc_SEM_INIT_OP Unable to invoke the semop() function as described by system semaphore properties.** 

**Cause:** The semaphore might have been deleted.

**Action:** Verify that the semaphore exists.

**0x0102E ( 4142) idERR_ABORT_THR_CREATE_FAILED Failed to create a thread object.** 

**Cause:** Internal Bug

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x01030 ( 4144) idERR_ABORT_idc_MARSHAL_FIND_FAIL Unable to find the specified unique marshal id.** 

**Cause:** Internal Bug

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x01031 ( 4145) idERR_ABORT_IDU_MEMORY_INVALID_STATUS An error has been detected in the memory manager.**

**Cause:** Internal memory manager error.

**Action:** Set the MEMORY_ALLOCATOR_USE_PRIVATE property to 0 and restart the server. For further information about this property, refer to the *General Reference*.

**0x0103C ( 4156) idERR_ABORT_SysCreat Unable to invoke the create() function on [<0%s>]**

**Cause:** The system failed to create the file.

**Action:** Verify that the storage manager has sufficient permission for the directory in which the file is created.

**0x01040 ( 4160) idERR_ABORT_SysWrite Unable to invoke the write() function on [<0%s>]**

**Cause:** The system failed to write data to the file due to a physical disk failure or a full disk.

**Action:** Execute the fsck command to troubleshoot and fix any filesystem errors.

**0x01043 ( 4163) idERR_ABORT_Session_Closed The session has been closed by the server**

**Cause:** The session has been closed by the server. This could be the result of a session timeout.

**Action:** Check the altibase_boot.log file or other log files. Check the properties related to session timeout.

**0x01044 ( 4164) idERR_ABORT_Query_Timeout Client's query exceeded the execution time limit.**

**Cause:** The query ran for too long.

**Action:** Check any properties related to session timeouts, and increase if necessary. Check the status of the system if the properties are set appropriately.

**0x01047 ( 4167) idERR_ABORT_idm_Id_Not_Found ID not found.**

**Cause:** The ID was not found.

**Action:** Verify that the ID is valid.

**0x01048 ( 4168) idERR_ABORT_idm_Unable_To_Get_Attribute Unable to get idm attributes**

**Cause:** Unable to get idm attributes.

**Action:** Verify the id and attributes.

**0x01049 ( 4169) idERR_ABORT_idm_Unable_To_Set_Attribute Unable to set idm attributes**

**Cause:** Unable to set idm attributes.

**Action:** Verify the id and attributes.

**0x0104B ( 4171) idERR_ABORT_idp_NameNotFound Unable to find the property name [<0%s>].**

**Cause:** The specified property name is not registered in the system.

**Action:** Check the property name.

**0x0104C ( 4172) idERR_ABORT_idp_RangeOverflow Property value overflow [<0%s>]**

**Cause:** The specified property value exceeded the allowable range.

**Action:** Refer to the General Reference, and enter a property value that falls within the range.

**0x0104D ( 4173) idERR_ABORT_idp_NoSuchEntry The entry [<1%d>] of the property [<0%s>] does not exist.**

**Cause:** The specified property entry does not exist.

**Action:** Check whether the property entry exists.

**0x0104E ( 4174) idERR_ABORT_idp_ReadOnlyEntry The property [<0%s>] is read-only.**

**Cause:** The specified property entry cannot be modified.

**Action:** Refer to the specification of the property.

**0x0104F (   4175) idERR_ABORT_idp_NotReadOnly The property [<0%s>] is not read-only** 

**Cause:** Internal Error

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x01050 ( 4176) idERR_ABORT_idu_NotFoundLicenseFile License File does not exist.**

**Cause:** License file does not exist.

**Action:** Install a valid license.

**0x01051 ( 4177) idERR_ABORT_IDU_MEMORY_ALLOCATION Memory [<0%s>] failed.**

**Cause:** Insufficient memory.

**Action:** Verify that the system has enough memory.

**0x01052 ( 4178) idERR_ABORT_SysOpen Unable to invoke the open() function on [<0%s>]**

**Cause:** The system failed to open the file.

**Action:** Verify that the file exists and that the operating system has not already opened the maximum possible number of files.

**0x01053 ( 4179) idERR_ABORT_SyncError Failed to sync a file for [<0%s>].** 

**Cause:** Failed to invoke the sync() function.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor

**0x01054 ( 4180) idERR_ABORT_ASYNC_IO_FAILED AIO operation failed [<0%d>].**

**Cause:** - The asynchronous I/O operation timed out.

**Action:** - Please check the files on which operation was to occur.

**0x01055 ( 4181) idERR_ABORT_ASYNC_IO_READ_FAILED AIO read operation failed [<0%d>].**

**Cause:** - The asynchronous I/O read operation failed.

**Action:** - Please check the files to be read.

**0x01056 ( 4182) idERR_ABORT_ASYNC_IO_WRITE_FAILED AIO write operation failed [<0%d>].**

**Cause:** - The asynchronous I/O write operation failed.

**Action:** - Please check the files which could not be written to.

**0x01057 ( 4183) idERR_ABORT_ASYNC_IO_RETURN_FAILED AIO return operation failed [<0%d>].**

**Cause:** - The asynchronous I/O aio_return() operation failed.

**Action:** - Please check the files on which operation was to occur.

**0x01058 ( 4184) idERR_ABORT_DISK_SPACE_EXHAUSTED Failed to create, extend or sync a file ( Name : <0%s>, Start Offset : <1%d>, Write Size : <2%d> )**

**Cause:** The disk space or the user's disk quota has been exhausted.

**Action:** Increase the disk space or the user's quota for the log file, memory db file, or disk tablespace datafile.

**0x01059 ( 4185) idERR_ABORT_EXCEED_FILE_SIZE_LIMIT Failed to increase size of file ( Name : <0%s>, Start Offset : <1%d>, Write Size : <2%d> )**

**Cause:** An attempt to increase the data file size exceeded the file size limit of the process or the maximum file size allowed by the operating system.

**Action:** Change the system file size limit.

**0x0105A ( 4186) idERR_ABORT_EXCEED_OPEN_FILE_LIMIT Failed to create file( Name : <0%s>, Start Offset : <1%d>, Write size : <2%d> )**

**Cause:** The limit on the total number of open files for the system or the maximum number of file descriptors has been reached.

**Action:** Close open files that are not in use or change system properties.

**0x0105B ( 4187) idERR_ABORT_IDU_FILE_INVALID_PATH Invalid directory path.**

**Cause:** A corresponding directory object does not exist.

**Action:** Correct the directory object parameter or create a corresponding directory object with the CREATE DIRECTORY command.

**0x0105C ( 4188) idERR_ABORT_IDU_FILE_INVALID_FILEHANDLE Invalid file handle.**

**Cause:** A file handle was specified for which no corresponding open file exists.

**Action:** Verify that the file handle is a value returned from a call to FOPEN.

**0x0105D ( 4189) idERR_ABORT_IDU_FILE_INVALID_OPERATION Invalid file operation.**

**Cause:** An attempt was made to read from a file or directory that does not exist, or file or directory access was denied by the operating system.

**Action:** Verify the file and directory access privileges on the file system, and, if reading, verify that the file exists.

**0x0105E ( 4190) idERR_ABORT_IDU_FILE_DELETE_FAILED File remove operation failed.**

**Cause:** An attempt to delete a file was refused by the operating system.

**Action:** Verify that the file exists and that delete privileges have been granted for the directory and the file.

**0x0105F ( 4191) idERR_ABORT_IDU_FILE_RENAME_FAILED File rename operation failed.**

**Cause:** A file rename attempt was refused by the operating system, either because the source or destination directory does not exist or is inaccessible, the source file isn't accessible, or a file with that name already exists.

**Action:** Verify that the source file, source directory, and destination directory exist and are accessible, and that no file with the desired name already exists.

**0x01060 ( 4192) idERR_ABORT_IDU_FILE_NO_DATA_FOUND No data found in file.**

**Cause:** Cannot read any data from the file.

**Action:** Check whether the file is empty or the position has reached end-of-file.

**0x01061 ( 4193) idERR_ABORT_IDU_FILE_READ_ERROR File read error.**

**Cause:** An attempt to read from a file failed.

**Action:** Verify that the file exists, that it is accessible, and that it is open in read mode.

**0x01062 ( 4194) idERR_ABORT_IDU_FILE_WRITE_ERROR File write error.**

**Cause:** Failed to write to a file.

**Action:** Verify that the file exists, that it is accessible, and that it is open in write or append mode.

**0x01063 ( 4195) idERR_ABORT_MESSAGE_OVERFLOW Message too long.**

**Cause:** The message to be processed is too long.

**Action:** Make the message length shorter than 2\^61.

**0x01066 ( 4198) idERR_ABORT_idp_Value_Convert_Error The property [<0%s>] value [<1%s>] cannot be converted.**

**Cause:** The data format is invalid.

**Action:** Enter a valid data format.

**0x01067 ( 4199) idERR_ABORT_MAX_MEM_SIZE_EXCEED The memory size allocated for the statement has exceeded the maximum limit ( Name : <0%s>, Wanted Memory Size : <1%lu>, Max size : <2%lu> ).**

**Cause:** The memory size allocated for the statement has exceeded the maximum limit.

**Action:** Increase the XXXXXXX_STMT_MEMORY_MAXIMUM property value.

**0x01068 ( 4200) idERR_ABORT_QUEUE_EMPTY Queue empty**

**Cause:** Queue empty

**Action:** Internal error.

**0x01069 ( 4201) idERR_ABORT_QUEUE_FULL Queue full**

**Cause:** Queue full

**Action:** Internal error.

**0x0106A ( 4202) idERR_ABORT_Query_Canceled Query canceled by client.**

**Cause:** The query has been canceled by the client.

**Action:** No action is necessary.

**0x0106B ( 4203) idERR_ABORT_Session_Disconnected The session has been disconnected by the client**

**Cause:** The session has been disconnected by the client.

**Action:** No action is necessary.

**0x0106C ( 4204) idERR_ABORT_Invalid_Profile_State The query profile has already been activated. Turn it off first.**

**Cause:** The query profile has already been activated.

**Action:** Query profiling is already enabled so no further action is required. However, if the value of the QUERY_PROF_FLAG property must be changed, first set the value to 0 and then set it to the desired value.

**0x0106F ( 4207) idERR_ABORT_BY_RECOVERY_TEST Recovery Test Abort Error**

**Cause:** The recovery test resulted in an abort error.

**Action:** Internal error.

**0x01073 ( 4211) idERR_ABORT_GPKI_API_Init GPKI_API_Init error: [<0%d>]**

**Cause:** The GPKI module failed to call the function.

**Action:** Check the error number from the altibase_boot.log file and refer to the GPKI Manual.

**0x01074 ( 4212) idERR_ABORT_GPKI_API_GetVersion GPKI_API_GetVersion error: [<0%d>]**

**Cause:** The GPKI module failed to call the function.

**Action:** Check the error number from the altibase_boot.log file and refer to the GPKI Manual.

**0x01075 ( 4213) idERR_ABORT_GPKI_API_Finish GPKI_API_Finish error: [<0%d>]**

**Cause:** The GPKI module failed to call the function.

**Action:** Check the error number from the altibase_boot.log file and refer to the GPKI Manual.

**0x01076 ( 4214) idERR_ABORT_GPKI_STORAGE_ReadCert GPKI_STORAGE_ReadCert error: [<0%d>]**

**Cause:** The GPKI module failed to call the function.

**Action:** Check the error number from the altibase_boot.log file and refer to the GPKI Manual.

**0x01077 ( 4215) idERR_ABORT_GPKI_STORAGE_ReadPriKey GPKI_STORAGE_ReadPriKey error: [<0%d>]**

**Cause:** The GPKI module failed to call the function.

**Action:** Check the error number from the altibase_boot.log file and refer to the GPKI Manual.

**0x01078 ( 4216) idERR_ABORT_GPKI_PRIKEY_CheckKeyPair GPKI_PRIKEY_CheckKeyPair error: [<0%d>]**

**Cause:** The GPKI module failed to call the function.

**Action:** Check the error number from the altibase_boot.log file and refer to the GPKI Manual.

**0x01079 ( 4217) idERR_ABORT_GPKI_CRYPT_GenRandom GPKI_CRYPT_GenRandom error: [<0%d>]**

**Cause:** The GPKI module failed to call the function.

**Action:** Check the error number from the altibase_boot.log file and refer to the GPKI Manual.

**0x0107A ( 4218) idERR_ABORT_GPKI_VersionMismatched Version mismatch error**

**Cause:** The GPKI module version is different from that of the client.

**Action:** Check the error number from the altibase_boot.log file and refer to the GPKI Manual.

**0x0107B ( 4219) idERR_ABORT_GPKI_BINSTR_SetData GPKI_BINSTR_SetData error: [<0%d>]**

**Cause:** The GPKI module failed to call the function.

**Action:** Check the error number from the altibase_boot.log file and refer to the GPKI Manual.

**0x0107C ( 4220) idERR_ABORT_GPKI_CMS_MakeSignedAndEnvData GPKI_CMS_MakeSignedAndEnvData error: [<0%d>]**

**Cause:** The GPKI module failed to call the function.

**Action:** Check the error number from the altibase_boot.log file and refer to the GPKI Manual.

**0x0107D ( 4221) idERR_ABORT_GPKI_CRYPT_GetKeyAndIV GPKI_CRYPT_GetKeyAndIV error: [<0%d>]**

**Cause:** The GPKI module failed to call the function.

**Action:** Check the error number from the altibase_boot.log file and refer to the GPKI Manual.

**0x0107E ( 4222) idERR_ABORT_GPKI_CMS_ProcessSignedAndEnvData GPKI_CMS_ProcessSignedAndEnvData error: [<0%d>]**

**Cause:** The GPKI module failed to call the function.

**Action:** Check the error number from the altibase_boot.log file and refer to the GPKI Manual.

**0x0107F ( 4223) idERR_ABORT_GPKI_CERT_Verify GPKI_CERT_Verify error: [<0%d>]**

**Cause:** The GPKI module failed to call the function.

**Action:** Check the error number from the altibase_boot.log file and refer to the GPKI Manual.

**0x01080 ( 4224) idERR_ABORT_GPKI_CERT_Load GPKI_CERT_Load error: [<0%d>]**

**Cause:** The GPKI module failed to call the function.

**Action:** Check the error number from the altibase_boot.log file and refer to the GPKI Manual.

**0x01081 ( 4225) idERR_ABORT_GPKI_CERT_GetSubjectName GPKI_CERT_GetSubjectName error: [<0%d>]**

**Cause:** The GPKI module failed to call the function.

**Action:** Check the error number from the altibase_boot.log file and refer to the GPKI Manual.

**0x01082 ( 4226) idERR_ABORT_GPKI_CERT_Unload GPKI_CERT_Unload error: [<0%d>]**

**Cause:** The GPKI module failed to call the function.

**Action:** Check the error number from the altibase_boot.log file and refer to the GPKI Manual.

**0x01083 ( 4227) idERR_ABORT_GPKI_ValueMismatched Value mismatch error**

**Cause:** The random value is different from that of the client.

**Action:** Check the GPKI module version.

**0x01084 ( 4228) idERR_ABORT_GPKI_CRYPT_Encrypt GPKI_CRYPT_Encrypt error: [<0%d>]**

**Cause:** The GPKI module failed to call the function.

**Action:** Check the error number from the altibase_boot.log file and refer to the GPKI Manual.

**0x01085 ( 4229) idERR_ABORT_GPKI_CypherTextTooLong CypherTextTooLong error**

**Cause:** The cyphertext is too long.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x01086 ( 4230) idERR_ABORT_GPKI_CRYPT_Decrypt GPKI_CRYPT_Decrypt error: [<0%d>]**

**Cause:** The GPKI module failed to call the function.

**Action:** Check the error number from the altibase_boot.log file and refer to the GPKI Manual.

**0x01087 ( 4231) idERR_ABORT_GPKI_PlainTextTooLong PlainTextTooLong error** 

**Cause:** The plaintext is too long.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x01088 ( 4232) idERR_ABORT_GPKI_dlopen dlopen error [<0%s>]**

**Cause:** dlopen error.

**Action:** Check the shared library.

**0x01089 ( 4233) idERR_ABORT_GPKI_dlsym dlsym error**

**Cause:** dlsym error.

**Action:** Check the shared library.

**0x0108A ( 4234) idERR_ABORT_GPKI_dlclose dlclose error**

**Cause:** dlclose error

**Action:** Check the shared library.

**0x0108B ( 4235) idERR_ABORT_CannotShrinkFile The data file size cannot be shrunk.**

**Cause:** The data file size cannot be shrunk.

**Action:** Change the desired data file size setting.

**0x0108D ( 4237) idERR_ABORT_idu_InvalidLicense License invalid or expired.**

**Cause:** The license is invalid or has expired.

**Action:** Install a valid license.

**0x0108E ( 4238) idERR_ABORT_idu_UNLOAD_ERROR [<0%s>] module unload error.**

**Cause:** Dlclose error.

**Action:** Check the error number from the altibase_boot.log file and take appropriate action.

**0x0108F ( 4239) idERR_ABORT_MODULE_IS_NOT_LOADED [<0%s>] module not loaded.**

**Cause:** A module is not loaded.

**Action:** Check the error number from the altibase_boot.log file and take appropriate action.

**0x01090 ( 4240) idERR_ABORT_FINALIZE_ERROR [<0%s>] : cannot finalize module.**

**Cause:** Failed to finalize.

**Action:** Check the error number from the altibase_boot.log file and take appropriate action.

**0x01091 ( 4241) idERR_ABORT_CannotOpenDir The system failed to open the directory.**

**Cause:** The system failed to open the directory.

**Action:** Check the error number from the altibase_boot.log file and take appropriate action.

**0x01092 ( 4242) idERR_ABORT_INVALID_CHARACTER character conversion error**

**Cause:** The source data abnormally terminated in the middle of a multibyte character.

**Action:** Use a complete multibyte character.

**0x01093 ( 4243) idERR_ABORT_PARTIAL_MULTIBYTE_CHARACTER partial multibyte character**

**Cause:** A partial multibyte character was found at the end of the input.

**Action:** Use a complete multibyte character.

**0x01094 ( 4244) idERR_ABORT_BUFFER_SIZE_TOO_SMALL buffer too small to hold the converted characters**

**Cause:** The buffer is not large enough to hold the value.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x01095 ( 4245) idERR_ABORT_DATA_LOSS_IN_CONVERSION Character data loss in conversion from NCHAR to CHAR**

**Cause:** When character set conversion happens between CHAR and NCHAR either implicitly or explicitly, some characters are lost due to unmapped characters in the destination character set.

**Action:** Verify that all characters can be mapped to the destination character set, or set NLS_NCHAR_CONV_EXCP to false.

**0x01096 ( 4246) idERR_ABORT_FILE_OPEN Unable to open a file [<0%s>]**

**Cause:** The path or filename is invalid, or the storage manager does not have permission to open the file.

**Action:** Verify that the path and filename are correct and that you have read/write permission for the file.

**0x01097 ( 4247) idERR_ABORT_FILE_CLOSE Unable to close file** 

**Cause:** An invalid file handle was specified.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x01098 ( 4248) idERR_ABORT_idp_Property_NotFound Unable to find the property [SID=<0%s>, Name=<%1s>].**

**Cause:** The specified property is not registered in the system.

**Action:** Verify that the specified property is registered in the system.

**0x01099 ( 4249) idERR_ABORT_idp_Value_Accept_Error The property [<0%s>] value [<1%s>] is not acceptable.**

**Cause:** The data format is invalid.

**Action:** Enter a valid data format.

**0x0109A ( 4250) idERR_ABORT_idp_Initialize_Error Property initialization failed.**

**Cause:** A property is set to an invalid value.

**Action:** Identify and correct the mis-configured property.

**0x0109B ( 4251) idERR_ABORT_SysSeek Unable to invoke the seek() function on [<0%s>]**

**Cause:** The system failed to write data to the file due to a physical disk failure or a full disk.

**Action:** Execute the fsck command to troubleshoot and fix any filesystem errors.

**0x0109C ( 4252) idERR_ABORT_ART Error generated by Automatic Recovery Test(ART)** 

**Cause:** Automatic recovery test generated an abort error.

**Action:** You may safely ignore this error.

**0x0109D ( 4253) idERR_ABORT_InsufficientMemory Insufficient memory**

**Cause:** Insufficient memory.

**Action:** Verify that the system has enough available memory.

**0x0109E ( 4254) idERR_ABORT_InternalServerError Internal server error.**

**Cause:** An unexpected internal server error has occurred.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase's Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x0109F ( 4255) idERR_ABORT_IDX_LIBRARY_NOT_FOUND Library file for external procedure/function not found : <0%s><1%s><2%s>**

**Cause:** The library file for the external procedure/function was not found.

**Action:** Verify that the specified library file exists in the library path.

**0x010A0 ( 4256) idERR_ABORT_IDX_FUNCTION_NOT_FOUND Function for external procedure/function not found**

**Cause:** A user-defined function for the external procedure/function was not found in the library.

**Action:** Verify that the specified function exists in the library file.

**0x010A1 ( 4257) idERR_ABORT_IDX_ENTRY_FUNCTION_NOT_FOUND Entry function for external procedure/function not found**

**Cause:** An entry function for the external procedure/function was not found in the library.

**Action:** Add the entry function to the library file.

**0x010A2 ( 4258) idERR_ABORT_IDX_INVALID_PROPERTY_MANIPULATION Invalid manipulation on a parameter property value of a parameter**

**Cause:** There was an invalid manipulation of a parameter’s property value.

**Action:** Check the function in the library.

**0x010A3 ( 4259) idERR_ABORT_IDX_AGENT_PROCESS_FAILURE Failed to start an agent process**

**Cause:** Failed to create or start an agent.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x010A4 ( 4260) idERR_ABORT_IDX_CALL_PROCEDURE_FAILURE Failed to call external procedure/function**

**Cause:** Failed to call the specified external procedure/function.

**Action:** Check the external procedure definition.

**0x010A5 ( 4261) idERR_ABORT_IDX_AGENT_CONNECTION_FAILURE Failed to connect to the agent : <0%s>**

**Cause:** Failed to connect to the agent.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x010A6 ( 4262) idERR_ABORT_IDX_AGENT_CONNECTION_LOST Connection to the agent has been lost**

**Cause:** Connection to the agent has been lost.

**Action:** Check the trace logs of the agent.

**0x010A9 ( 4265) idERR_ABORT_DOUBLEFREE Tried to free a memory block already freed**

**Cause:** Thread count has reached the limit.

**Action:** Increase the MAX_THREAD_COUNT property.

**0x010AA ( 4266) idERR_ABORT_DISK_OR_DEVICE_BUSY Disk or device busy ( Name : <0%s>, Start Offset : <1%d>, Write Size : <2%d> )**

**Cause:** The disk space or the user's disk quota has been exhausted.

**Action:** Increase the disk space or the user's quota for the log file, memory db file, or disk tablespace datafile.

**0x010AE ( 4270) idERR_ABORT_already_created The shared memory region is already in use.**

**Cause:** The shared memory region is already in use.

**Action:** Please change the shared memory key value to a different value.

**0x010AF ( 4271) idERR_ABORT_SysShmGet Failed to invoke the shmget() system function**

**Cause:** The system failed to allocate a new shared memory region due to the lack of resources on the system.

**Action:** Please adjust parameters in order to obtain sufficient shared memory resources.

**0x010B2 ( 4274) idERR_ABORT_No_More_Shm_Key Unable to find an available shared memory key.**

**Cause:** No more shared memory keys are available.

**Action:** Please remove all of the shared memory regions and try again.

**0x010B3 ( 4275) idERR_ABORT_NoMore_SHM_Page Insufficient memory for database**

**Cause:** The system failed to increase the amount of memory because the database was created in a shared memory region.

**Action:** Please shut down the database and make sure that the system has sufficient memory using xdbshmutil.

**0x010B4 ( 4276) idERR_ABORT_Shm_Max_Size A shared memory size consumed excceds the size than expected.**

**Cause:** The shared memory size property value is less than the size which the process needs.

**Action:** Please increase the size of the shared memory property.

**0x010C0 ( 4288) idERR_ABORT_REQUEST_PROCESS_FAILURE The process to deal with a request asked by the current process is dead.** 

**Cause:** The process to deal with a request is dead.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor

**0x010C1 ( 4289) idERR_ABORT_LATCH_TIMEOUT Timeout happens while trying to do latch.**

**Cause:** There is a thread or process acquiring a latch for long time.

**Action:** Check which a process or thread get a latch for a long time.

**0x010C9 ( 4297) idERR_ABORT_Invalid_Process_ID The process ID is invalid.**

**Cause:** There is no process in XDB processes.

**Action:** Please check if the process ID is valid.

**0x010CA ( 4298) idERR_ABORT_Invalid_Thread_ID The thread ID is invalid.**

**Cause:** There is no thread in XDB processes.

**Action:** Please check if the thread ID is valid.

**0x010CD ( 4301) idERR_ABORT_SET_LATCH_STACK_OVERFLOW Set latch stack overflow happens while trying to lock table.**

**Cause:** There are too many table locks acquired in a transaction.

**Action:** Reduce a table count referenced in a transaction (Maximum table count in a transaction is 128 in LOCK_MGR_TYPE=1).

**0x010CE ( 4302) idERR_ABORT_IDU_MEMORY_DEALLOCATION Memory deallocation failed.** 

**Cause:**  - System call failed.

**Action:** - Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x010CF ( 4303) idERR_ABORT_IDX_AGENT_CONNECTION_LOST_WHILE_RECV Connection to the agent has been lost while receiving (step : <0%d>)**

**Cause:** Connection to the agent has been lost while receiving.

**Action:** Check the trace logs of the agent.

**0x010D0 ( 4304) idERR_ABORT_IDX_AGENT_CONNECTION_LOST_WHILE_SEND Connection to the agent has been lost while sending (step : <0%d>)**

**Cause:** Connection to the agent has been lost while sending.

**Action:** Check the trace logs of the agent.

**0x010D1 ( 4305) idERR_ABORT_IDX_AGENT_CONNECTION_LOST_BY_PEER Connection to the agent has been lost by peer (step : <0%d>, Read Count : <1%d>, Buffer Size : <2%d>)**

**Cause:** Connection to the agent has been lost by peer.

**Action:** Check the trace logs of the agent.

**0x010D3 ( 4307) idERR_ABORT_IDU_SHM_INCOMPATIBLE_CONFIG Incompatible changes to the shared memory configuration have been detected. Previously => [ SHM Chunk Size = <0%u>, SHM Max Chunk Count = <1%lu> ] Now => [ SHM Chunk Size = <2%u>, SHM Max Chunk Count =  <3%lu> ]**

**Cause:** Some of the shared memory configuration have been changed and the changes require the database to be reloaded into the shared memory.

**Action:** Clear the shared memory by issuing xdbshmutil -e command and start the server again.

**0x010D4 ( 4308) idERR_ABORT_INVALID_ENCRYPTED_TEXT Malformed or corrupted wrapped unit.**

**Cause:** The format of the wrapped unit being compiled is not understood by the compiler. This may be because the unit was edited or modified after it was wrapped.

**Action:** Rewrap the unit.

**0x010D5 ( 4309) idERR_ABORT_PERSSYS_CREATE_FAILED Could not create persistent system chunk.** 

**Cause:** System chunk of persistent memory manager could not be created.

**Action:** Cleanup shared memory and try again, or change system chunk key.

**0x010D6 ( 4310) idERR_ABORT_PERSSYS_MAP_FAILED Could not map persistent system chunk.** 

**Cause:** System chunk of persistent memory manager could not be mapped.

**Action:** Cleanup shared memory and try again, or change system chunk key.

**0x010D7 ( 4311) idERR_ABORT_PERS_SHM_FULL Amount of shared memory reached system limit.** 

**Cause:** Amount of shared memory reached system limit.

**Action:** Cleanup shared memory, or modify kernel parameters to increase shared memory limit.

**0x010D8 ( 4312) idERR_ABORT_PERS_CLEANUP_FAILED Could not cleanup shared memory chunks.** 

**Cause:** Shared memory cleanup failed.

**Action:** Remove persistent system chunk manually.

**0x010D9 ( 4313) idERR_ABORT_PERS_ATTACH_FAILED Could not attach shared memory chunk <0%d>(<1%d>,<2%d>) : <3%d>** 

**Cause:** Shared memory attach data chunk failed.

**Action:** Remove persistent system chunk and try again.

**0x010DA ( 4314) idERR_ABORT_PERS_INVALID_CHUNK Chunk <0%d> is invalid.** 

**Cause:** Shared memory attach data chunk failed.

**Action:** Remove persistent system chunk and try again.

**0x010DB ( 4315) idERR_ABORT_PERS_INVALID_ADDRESS Could not access [<0%d>][<1%x>], which is not in [<2%d>][<3%x>]**

**Cause:** Invalid access of memory

**Action:** Remove persistent system chunk and try again.

**0x010DC ( 4316) idERR_ABORT_PERSSYS_NOT_MINE System chunk was created by other user.** 

**Cause:** Other user has created a chunk with SHM_PERS_KEY

**Action:** Change the property SHM_PERS_KEY and try again.

**0x010DD ( 4317) idERR_ABORT_FILENAME_TOO_LONG The filename is too long [<0%s>]**

**Cause:** The filename is too long.

**Action:** Shorten the filename.

**0x010DE ( 4318) idERR_ABORT_FILE_ALREADY_EXIST The file already exists [<0%s>]**

**Cause:** The file already exists.

**Action:** Try another filename.

**0x010DF ( 4319) idERR_ABORT_INVALID_ACCESS Access denied [<0%s>]**

**Cause:** The file cannot be accessed.

**Action:** Verify the permission of the file, or the parent directory.

**0x010E0 ( 4320) idERR_ABORT_NO_SUCH_FILE No such file exists [<0%s>]**

**Cause:** The file does not exist.

**Action:** Verify that the path and the filename are correct.

**0x010E1 ( 4321) idERR_ABORT_WRONG_Profile_Flag The value of QUERY_PROF_FLAG property exceeds the maximum value(<0%d>).**

**Cause:** The current value of QUERY_PROF_FLAG property exceeds the maximum value 63.

**Action:** Modify the value of QUERY_PROF_FLAG property to be less than or equal to 63.

**0x010EB ( 4331) idERR_ABORT_NOT_SUPPORT_FALLOCATE The operation is not supported by the filesystem(or kernel) (<0%s>)**

**Cause:** The filesystem(or kernel) containing the file does not support this operation.

**Action:** Set the LOG_CREATE_METHOD property value to 0 and restart the server.

**0x010EC ( 4332) idERR_ABORT_Sysfallocate Unable to invoke the fallocate() function on [<0%s>].**

**Cause:** The system failed to call the fallocate() function.

**Action:** Set the LOG_CREATE_METHOD property value to 0 and restart the server.

**0x010ED ( 4333) idERR_ABORT_InternalServerErrorWithString Internal server error ( <0%s> ).**

**Cause:** An unexpected internal server error has occurred.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase's Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x010EE ( 4334) idERR_ABORT_IDU_MEMORY_INVALID_SET_STATUS An error has been detected in the memory manager. [<0%s>]**

**Cause:** Internal memory manager error.

**Action:** Set the MEMORY_ALLOCATOR_USE_PRIVATE property to 0 and restart the server. Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

### IGNORE

**0x02000 ( 8192) idERR_IGNORE_NoError No ID module error**

**Cause:** This is not an error.

**Action:** You may safely ignore this message.

**0x02016 ( 8214) idERR_IGNORE_idc_CHANNEL_OPEN_FAILED Unable to open a communication channel because none has been created**

**Cause:** Failed to open a communication channel because no communication channel has been created yet.

**Action:** Check kernel properties.

**0x0206E ( 8302) idERR_IGNORE_VAR_STRING_APPEND_FORMAT_TOO_LONG VarString appendFormat too long**

**Cause:** VarString appendFormat too long.

**Action:** Internal error.

**0x020A7 ( 8359) idERR_IGNORE_THREAD_CREATEFAIL Thread object cannot be created.**

**Cause:** A thread object cannot be created.

**Action:** Check kernel properties.

**0x020A8 ( 8360) idERR_IGNORE_THREADCOUNT_EXCEEDED The number of Threads has reached to maximum count : <0%d>**

**Cause:** Thread count has reached the limit.

**Action:** Increase the MAX_THREAD_COUNT property.

**0x020AB ( 8363) idERR_IGNORE_THREAD_NOTSTARTED Joining a thread that is not started**

**Cause:** Trying to join a thread that is not started.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase's Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x020AC ( 8364) idERR_IGNORE_THREAD_UNBOUND Joining a detached thread**

**Cause:** Trying to join a thread that is not joinable

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase's Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x020C4 ( 8388) idERR_IGNORE_FAIL_OPEN_ISQL_PTY_FILE can not to open a file that includes the path of pty.**

**Cause:** Failed to can not to open a file that includes the path of xdbisql pty.

**Action:** This error does not originate with Altibase.

**0x020C6 ( 8390) idERR_IGNORE_FAIL_COMMIT_TRANS_DUE_TO_MAX_ROW Transaction faces a error while committing.**

**Cause:** The table has more rows than the max row limitation.

**Action:** Check the table's max rows.

**0x020E2 ( 8418) idERR_IGNORE_NO_SUCH_CPUINFO Unable to retrieve CPU information (errno:<0%d>).**

**Cause:** CPU affinity configuration is not found.

**Action:** Verify the error number in the trace log and contact Altibase Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x020E3 ( 8419) idERR_IGNORE_EXCEED_NUMA_NODE The NUMA node number [<0%d>] exceeds the maximum value [<1%d>].**

**Cause:** The NUMA node number exceeds the maximum value.

**Action:** Verify the NUMA node number and valid range in the trace log and contact Altibase Support Center. ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x020E4 ( 8420) idERR_IGNORE_EXCEED_CPUNO The CPU number [<0%d>]/[<1%d>] exceeded the supported maximum value [<2%d>]/[<3%d>].**

**Cause:** The CPU number exceeds the maximum value.

**Action:** Verify the CPU number and valid range in the trace log and contact Altibase Support Center. ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x020E5 ( 8421) idERR_IGNORE_INVALID_CPUNO Invalid CPU number [<0%d>]. The Valid range is 0 to <1%d>.**

**Cause:** The CPU number is invalid.

**Action:** Verify the CPU number and valid range in the trace log and contact Altibase Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x020E6 ( 8422) idERR_IGNORE_INVALID_NUMA_NODE_NO Invalid NUMA node number [<0%d>]. The Valid range is 0 to <1%d>.**

**Cause:** The NUMA node number is invalid.

**Action:** Verify the NUMA node number and valid range in the trace log and contact Altibase Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x020E7 ( 8423) idERR_IGNORE_BINDTHREAD_FAILED Unable to set CPU affinity (errno:<0%d>).**

**Cause:** The system function failed to bind cpusets on a thread.

**Action:** Verify the error number in the trace log and contact Altibase Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x020E8 ( 8424) idERR_IGNORE_BIND_PROCESS_FAILED Failed to set CPU affinity on a process (errno:<0%d>).**

**Cause:** The system function failed to bind cpusets on a process.

**Action:** Verify the error number in the trace log and contact Altibase Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x020E9 ( 8425) idERR_IGNORE_UNBINDTHREAD_FAILED Failed to unset CPU affinity on a thread.**

**Cause:** The CPU number is invalid.

**Action:** This message can be disregarded.

**0x020EA ( 8426) idERR_IGNORE_UNBIND_PROCESS_FAILED Failed to unset CPU affinity on a process.**

**Cause:** The CPU number is invalid.

**Action:** This message can be disregarded.



