# 10.APRE Error Code

### ABORT

**0x51000 ( 331776) ulpERR_ABORT_FILE_OPEN_ERROR Failed to open file: \<0%s\>,
errno=\<1%d\>**

**Cause:** Failed to open the file.

**Action:** Check the file path is valid and the client application has enough
privileges.

**0x51001 ( 331777) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_Invaild_File_Size FileSize (\<0%s\>) is
zero.**

**Cause:** The file size is zero.

**Action:** Check the file.

**0x51002 ( 331778) ulpERR_ABORT_FILE_NOT_FOUND File not found: \<0%s\>**

**Cause:** File or directory does not exist.

**Action:** Check the path or create file or change the code.

**0x51003 ( 331779) ulpERR_ABORT_FILE_DELETE_ERROR Failed to delete file:
\<0%s\>, errno=\<1%u\>**

**Cause:** Failed to delete the file.

**Action:** Check the file path is valid and the client application has enough
privileges.

**0x51004 ( 331780) ulpERR_ABORT_Memory_Alloc_Error Memory allocation error.**

**Cause:** Memory is full or process heap corruption occurred.

**Action:** If this error occurs on the client, reduce the amount of memory
being used by the client application. If this error occurs on the server, verify
that there is enough memory.

**0x51005 ( 331781) ulpERR_ABORT_Latch_Init_Error Latch initialize error.
(\<1%s\>:\<0%d\> )**

**Cause:** The system encountered an internal server error.

**Action:** Contact Altibase’s Support Center (http://support.altibase.com/en/).

**0x51006 ( 331782) ulpERR_ABORT_Latch_Read_Error Latch read error.
(\<1%s\>:\<0%d\> )**

**Cause:** The system encountered an internal server error.

**Action:** Contact Altibase’s Support Center (http://support.altibase.com/en/).

**0x51007 ( 331783) ulpERR_ABORT_Latch_Release_Error Latch release error.
(\<1%s\>:\<0%d\> )**

**Cause:** The system encountered an internal server error.

**Action:** Contact Altibase’s Support Center (http://support.altibase.com/en/).

**0x51008 ( 331784) ulpERR_ABORT_Latch_Write_Error Latch write error.
(\<1%s\>:\<0%d\> )**

**Cause:** The system encountered an internal server error.

**Action:** Contact Altibase’s Support Center (http://support.altibase.com/en/).

**0x51009 ( 331785) ulpERR_ABORT_Latch_Destroy_Error Latch destroy error.
(\<1%s\>:\<0%d\>)**

**Cause:** The system encountered an internal server error.

**Action:** Contact Altibase’s Support Center (http://support.altibase.com/en/).

**0x5100A ( 331786) ulpERR_ABORT_FILE_CLOSE_ERROR Failed to close file: \<0%s\>,
errno=\<1%d\>**

**Cause:** Failed to close the file.

**Action:** Check the operating system error number.

**0x5100B ( 331787) ulpERR_ABORT_FILE_WRITE_ERROR Failed to write file: \<0%s\>,
errno=\<1%u\>**

**Cause:** Failed to write the file.

**Action:** Check the file path is valid and the client application has enough
privileges.

**0x5100C ( 331788) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_C_Comment_No_Close_Error C-type comment is
not closed.**

**Cause:** C-type Comment is not closed.

**Action:** Close C-type Comment.

**0x5100D ( 331789) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_C_Unknown_Structname_Error The structure
name [\<0%s\>] is unknown.**

**Cause:** The structure name is unknown.

**Action:** Change the structure name.

**0x5100E ( 331790) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_C_Duplicate_Structname_Error The structure
name [\<0%s\>] is a duplicate.**

**Cause:** The structure name is the same as an existing name.

**Action:** Change the structure name.

**0x5100F ( 331791) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_C_Add_Symbol_Error The symbol name
[\<0%s\>] cannot be added to the symbol table.**

**Cause:** The symbol name cannot be added to the symbol table.

**Action:** Check the name of the symbol.

**0x51010 ( 331792) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_C_Exceed_Max_Id_Length_Error The symbol
name exceeds the maximum length: \<0%s\>**

**Cause:** The symbol name is too long. Maximum length is 1023.**Action:**
Change the symbol name to a shorter name.

**0x51011 ( 331793) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_Symbol_Redefinition_Error Redefinition of
'\<0%s\>'.**

**Cause:** The symbol has already been defined.

**Action:** Change the symbol name.

**0x51012 ( 331794) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_Type_Not_Exist_Error Unknown type
'\<0%s\>'.**

**Cause:** The type is unknown.

**Action:** Use a known type.

**0x51013 ( 331795) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_Invalid_Scope_Depth_Error Invalid scope
depth: \<0%d\>**

**Cause:** Braces are nested too deeply. Maximum depth is 100.**Action:** Remove
some braces to reduce the depth of nesting.

**0x51014 ( 331796) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_Brace_Count_Error Inconsistent brace
count.**

**Cause:** The number of opening braces does not match the number of closing
braces.

**Action:** Check the number of opening and closing braces.

**0x51015 ( 331797) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_Paren_Count_Error Inconsistent parenthesis
count error.**

**Cause:** The number of opening parentheses does not match the number of
closing parentheses.

**Action:** Check the number of opening and closing parentheses and try again.

**0x51016 ( 331798) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_Exceed_Max_Nested_Struct_Depth_Error The
nested structure exceeds the maximum possible depth.**

**Cause:** The nested structure exceeds the maximum possible depth(100).

**Action:** Decrease the depth of the nested structure.

**0x51017 ( 331799) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_Varchar_In_IncludeFile_Error VARCHAR
declarations are not permitted in \#include files.**

**Cause:** A varchar declaration was used in an \#include file.

**Action:** Remove the varchar declaration from the \#include file. Consider
using EXEC SQL INCLUDE instead.

**0x51018 ( 331800) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_Syntax_Error Failed to compile with invalid syntax.**

**Cause:** The invalid syntax exists in the *.sc file and could not compile the file.

**Action:** Verify the syntax of the *.sc file.

**0x5101E ( 331806) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_Emsqlstmt_Exist_in_CIncludefile_Error The
C include file can't contain embedded SQL statements.**

**Cause:** The C include file can't contain embedded SQL statements.

**Action:** Delete the embedded SQL statement.

**0x5101F ( 331807) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_No_End_Declare_Section_Error EXEC SQL END
DECLARE SECTION does not exist.**

**Cause:** The EXEC SQL END DECLARE SECTION does not exist.

**Action:** Check the EXEC SQL END DECLARE SECTION.

**0x51020 ( 331808) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_No_Begin_Declare_Section_Error EXEC SQL
BEGIN DECLARE SECTION does not exist.**

**Cause:** The EXEC SQL BEGIN DECLARE SECTION does not exist.

**Action:** Check the EXEC SQL BEGIN DECLARE SECTION.

**0x51021 ( 331809) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_No_End_Arg_Section_Error EXEC SQL END
ARGUMENT SECTION does not exist.**

**Cause:** The EXEC SQL BEGIN ARGUMENT SECTION does not exist.

**Action:** Check the EXEC SQL BEGIN ARGUMENT SECTION.

**0x51022 ( 331810) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_No_Begin_Arg_Section_Error EXEC SQL BEGIN
ARGUMENT SECTION does not exist.**

**Cause:** The EXEC SQL BEGIN ARGUMENT SECTION does not exist.

**Action:** Check the EXEC SQL BEGIN ARGUMENT SECTION.

**0x51023 ( 331811) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_Unterminated_String_Error Unterminated
string error.**

**Cause:** Unterminated string.

**Action:** Check that there is no unterminated string.

**0x51024 ( 331812) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_Exceed_Max_Connname_Error Connection name
[\<0%s\>] is too long. (max length is 50)**

**Cause:** The connection name is too long.

**Action:** Check the connection name.

**0x51025 ( 331813) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_Exceed_Max_Cursorname_Error Cursor name
[\<0%s\>] is too long. (max length is 50)**

**Cause:** The cursor name is too long.

**Action:** Check the cursor name.

**0x51026 ( 331814) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_Exceed_Max_Stmtname_Error Statement name
[\<0%s\>] is too long. (max length is 50)**

**Cause:** The statement name is too long.

**Action:** Check the statement name.

**0x51027 ( 331815) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_FOR_iternum_Error The number of FOR loop
iterations must be greater than zero.**

**Cause:** The number of FOR loop iterations was zero.

**Action:** Ensure that the number of "for" iterations is greater than zero.

**0x51028 ( 331816) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_Unknown_Hostvar_Error The host variable
[\<0%s\>] is unknown.**

**Cause:** The host variable is unknown.

**Action:** Ensure that the host variable has been declared.

**0x51029 ( 331817) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_Lob_Locator_Error The host variable in a
FREE LOB statement must be a LOB locator.**

**Cause:** The variable was not a LOB locator.

**Action:** Check the type of the host variable.

**0x5102A ( 331818) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_Unterminated_EMString_Error Unterminated
embedded SQL statement.**

**Cause:** Unterminated embedded SQL statement.

**Action:** Ensure that the embedded SQL statement ends with a semicolon (';').

**Action:** Set the connection string appropriately.

**0x5102B ( 331819) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_Wrong_IndicatorType_Error The indicator
variable [\<0%s\>] should be of type SQLLEN or a compatible type.**

**Cause:** The indicator variable data type is not compatible with SQLLEN.

**Action:** Change the indicator variable data type to SQLLEN or INT.

**0x5102C ( 331820) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_Repeat_Array_Struct_Error Two or more
arrays of structures are bound to host variables in the same statement.**

**Cause:** Only one array of structures can be bound to a host variable in a
single statement.

**Action:** Bind only one array of structures to a host variable in one
statement.

**0x5102D ( 331821) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_Invalid_Indicator_Usage_Error A host
variable that is an array of structures cannot be associated with an
indicator.**

**Cause:** A host variable that is an array of structures is associated with an
indicator.

**Action:** Remove the indicator.

**0x51032 ( 331826) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_Unknown_Macro_Overflow_Error An unknown
macro is too long. (\>4k)**

**Cause:** A macro is too long.

**Action:** Shorten the macro so it is within the allowable size.

**0x51033 ( 331827) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_IF_Macro_Syntax_Error Macro \#if statement
syntax error.**

**Cause:** The syntax of an \#if statement in a macro is incorrect.

**Action:** Check the syntax of the \#if statement in the macro.

**0x51034 ( 331828) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_ELIF_Macro_Syntax_Error Macro \#elif
statement syntax error.**

**Cause:** The syntax of an \#elif statement in a macro is incorrect.

**Action:** Check the syntax of the \#elif statement in the macro.

**0x51035 ( 331829) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_ELIF_Macro_Sequence_Error Macro \#elif
statement sequence error.**

**Cause:** The position of an \#elif statement in a macro is incorrect.

**Action:** Check the position of the \#elif statement in the macro.

**0x51036 ( 331830) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_ELSE_Macro_Sequence_Error Macro \#else
statement sequence error.**

**Cause:** The position of an \#else statement in a macro is incorrect.

**Action:** Check the position of the \#else statement in the macro.

**0x51037 ( 331831) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_ENDIF_Macro_Sequence_Error Macro \#endif
statement sequence error.**

**Cause:** The position of an \#endif statement in a macro is incorrect.

**Action:** Check the position of the \#endif statement in the macro.

**0x51038 ( 331832) ulpERR_ABORT_PREPROC_If_Empty_Char_Constant_Error An empty
char constant cannot be used with an \#if macro expression.**

**Cause:** An empty char constant was used with an \#if macro expression.

**Action:** Do not use an empty char constant with an \#if macro expression.

**0x51039 ( 331833) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_Include_Depth_Too_Large_Error Include
files are nested too deeply. (maximum \<0%s\>)**

**Cause:** Include files are nested too deeply within other include files.

**Action:** Do not nest include files more than \<0%s\> levels deep.

**0x5103A ( 331834) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_NO_ENDIF_Macro_Error No \#endif error.**

**Cause:** An \#if statement was used in a macro without an \#endif statement.

**Action:** Remove the \#if statement from the macro or add an \#endif statement
to the macro.

**0x5103B ( 331835) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_DEFINE_FUNC_NOBRACE_Error A closing
parenthesis ')' is missing from the macro parameter list.**

**Cause:** A closing parenthesis ')' is missing from the macro parameter list.

**Action:** Add a closing parenthesis ')' to the macro parameter list.

**0x5103C ( 331836) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_DEFINE_Unknown_Macro_Error Unknown macro
name, or missing parenthesis after macro name. ( \<0%s\> )**

**Cause:** The name of a macro is unknown, or a closing parenthesis is missing
after a macro name.

**Action:** Check the macro name and declaration syntax.

**0x5103D ( 331837) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_DEFINE_FUNC_Unterminated_String_Error
Unterminated string error.**

**Cause:** A string does not have a terminating character.

**Action:** Check that the string has been properly terminated.

**0x5103E ( 331838) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_Define_Macro_Overflow_Error The content of
a \#define macro is too long. (\>32k)**

**Cause:** The content of a \#define macro is too long.

**Action:** Check the \#define macro and shorten it.

**0x51046 ( 331846) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_Option_Duplicated_Error \<0%s\> option is
repeated.**

**Cause:** A preprocessing command-line option was specified more than once.

**Action:** Check the preprocessing command-line option.

**0x51047 ( 331847) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_Option_String_Overflow_Error Option string
\<0%s\> is too long.**

**Cause:** An option string was too long.

**Action:** Check the preprocessing command-line options.

**0x51049 ( 331849) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_Invalid_Input_fileName_Error Input file
must be a form of '\*.sc'.**

**Cause:** The preprocessing filename extension was invalid.

**Action:** Check the preprocessing file name.

**0x5104A ( 331850) ulpERR_ABORT_Unknown_Stmttype_Error Unknown embedded SQL
statement type.**

**Cause:** Unknown embedded SQL statement.

**Action:** Check the embedded SQL statement.

**0x51054 ( 331860) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_Not_Supported_WITH_RETURN_Error WITH
RETURN option is not supported yet.**

**Cause:** The WITH RETURN option is currently unsupported.

**Action:** Do not use this function.

**0x51055 ( 331861) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_Not_Supported_READ_ONLY_Error READ ONLY
option is not supported yet.**

**Cause:** The READ ONLY option is currently unsupported.

**Action:** Do not use this function.

**0x51056 ( 331862) ulpERR_ABORT_COMP_Not_Supported_ALTER_COMPACT_Error ALTER
COMPACT option is not supported yet.**

**Cause:** The ALTER COMPACT option is currently unsupported

**Action:** Do not use this function.

**0x5105A ( 331866) ulpERR_ABORT_Conn_Not_Exist_Error The connection does not
exist. (Name:\<0%s\>)**

**Cause:** The server connection was released.

**Action:** Check the connection with the server.

**0x5105B ( 331867) ulpERR_ABORT_Conn_Aleady_Exist_Error The connection already
exists. (Name:\<0%s\>)**

**Cause:** The connection with the server already exists.

**Action:** Check the connection with the server.

**0x5105D ( 331869) utERR_ABORT_Conn_First_Trial_Failed Failed first connection
attempt.**

**Cause:** The first server connection attempt failed.

**Action:** Check the server connection information.

**0x5105E ( 331870) ulpERR_ABORT_Conn_Second_Trial_Failed Failed second
connection attempt.**

**Cause:** The second server connection attempt failed.

**Action:** Check the server connection information.

**0x5105F ( 331871) ulERR_ABORT_Disconn_Xa_Error Cannot connect or disconnect in
a XA Env.**

**Cause:** Altibase Embedded SQL applications cannot invoke connect or
disconnect in an XA environment.

**Action:** Do not use EXEC SQL CONNECT, DISCONNECT statements in an X/Open DTP
environment.

**0x51060 ( 331872) ulpERR_ABORT_Conflict_Two_Emsqls_Error Two embedded SQL
statements conflict with each other in a multithreaded environment.**

**Cause:** Replication failed because two or more embedded statements were
executed simultaneously.

**Action:** Check replication handling in the multithreaded program.

**0x51061 ( 331873) ulpERR_ABORT_Stmt_Not_Exist_Error The statement does not
exist. (Name:\<0%s\>)**

**Cause:** The statement does not exist.

**Action:** Check the statement syntax.

**0x51062 ( 331874) ulpERR_ABORT_Stmt_Need_Prepare_4Execute_Error The statement
must be prepared for execution. (Name:\<0%s\>)**

**Cause:** The statement is not ready.

**Action:** Check the statement syntax.

**0x51063 ( 331875) ulpERR_ABORT_Cursor_Not_Exist_Error The cursor does not
exist. (Name:\<0%s\>)**

**Cause:** The statement does not exist.

**Action:** Check the statement syntax.

**0x51064 ( 331876) ulpERR_ABORT_Cursor_Need_Declare_4Open_Error The cursor must
be declared to be opened. (Name:\<0%s\>)**

**Cause:** The cursor conditions are not valid.

**Action:** Check the cursor conditions.

**0x51067 ( 331879) ulpERR_ABORT_Stmt_Query_Overflow The query statement is too
long. It must be less than 256k.**

**Cause:** The query statement exceeds 256k.

**Action:** Check the query statement.

**0x51068 ( 331880) ulpERR_ABORT_Too_Many_Rows_Error Too many rows returned.**

**Cause:** Too many rows were returned for the allocated space.

**Action:** Increase the size of the space allocated to receive the returned
rows.

**0x51069 ( 331881) ulpERR_ABORT_Invalid_User_Error Invalid user.**

**Cause:** The user ID does not exist.

**Action:** Re-enter your user ID.

**0x5106A ( 331882) ulpERR_ABORT_Invalid_Passwd_Error Invalid password.**

**Cause:** The password was incorrect.

**Action:** Re-enter your password.

**0x5106B ( 331883) ulpERR_ABORT_Stmt_Need_Execute_4Fetch_Error The statement
must be executed to fetch rows.**

**Cause:** The statement must be executed to fetch rows.

**Action:** Check the sequence of embedded SQL statements.

**0x5106C ( 331884) ulpERR_ABORT_Cursor_Need_Open_4Fetch_Error The cursor must
be opened to fetch rows.**

**Cause:** The cursor must be opened to fetch rows.

**Action:** Check the sequence of embedded SQL statements.

**0x5106E ( 331886) ulpERR_ABORT_NCHAR_No_Indicator_Error The NCHAR type value
must have an indicator.**

**Cause:** No indicator.

**Action:** Make an indicator.

**0x5106F ( 331887) ulpERR_ABORT_XA_GetConnectAttr_Error Cannot get the
connection attributes for ALTIBASE_XA_NAME.**

**Cause:** Cannot get the connection attributes for ALTIBASE_XA_NAME.

**Action:** Check the XA connection.

**0x51070 ( 331888) ulpERR_ABORT_Atomic_For_Value_Error A FOR clause must
execute at least once.**

**Cause:** The constant in an Atomic FOR clause was set to less than 1.

**Action:** Set the constant in the Atomic FOR clause so that it is greater than
1.

**0x51071 ( 331889) ulpERR_ABORT_FORstmt_Invalid_usage_Error The FOR clause can
only be used with variables of array or pointer type.**

**Cause:** An attempt was made to use a variable that was not an array or
pointer type with a FOR clause.

**Action:** Use array or pointer type variables with the FOR clause.

**0x51072 ( 331890) ulpERR_ABORT_Invalid_Indicator_Value_Error Invalid
indicator: \<0%d\>**

**Cause:** The value of the indicator is invalid.

**Action:** Change the indicator value.

**0x51073 ( 331891) ulpERR_ABORT_Unknown_Type_For_Shared_Pointer The type of the
pointer used is not supported.**

**Cause:** The type of the pointer used in DECLARE POINTER statement is not
supported.

**Action:** Declare the pointer with appropriate type.

**0x51074 ( 331892) ulpERR_ABORT_Memory_Alloc_Failed Memory allocation error.
\<0%s\>.**

**Cause:** Memory space has been exhausted.

**Action:** Reduce the amount of memory being used in client application.

**0x51075 ( 331893) ulpERR_ABORT_Invalid_Array_Size_Error Invalid bind set array
size: \<0%d\>**

**Cause:** The value of the array size is invalid.

**Action:** Check the value of the array size.

**0x51076 ( 331894) ulpERR_ABORT_Type_Not_Exist_Error Unknown type: \<0%d\>**

**Cause:** Incompatible data type.

**Action:** Check the compatibility of the data type.

**0x51077 ( 331895) ulpERR_ABORT_DynamicSql_Max_ColumnSize_Small SQLDA.N is too
small: \<0%d\>**

**Cause:** The value of the dynamic sql to be bound is too small.

**Action:** Check the column size and enlarge the value.

**0x51078 ( 331896) ulpERR_ABORT_DynamicSql_Max_BindSize_Small SQLDA.N is too
small: \<0%d\>**

**Cause:** The value of the dynamic sql to be bound is too small.

**Action:** Check the bind size and enlarge the value.

**0x51079 ( 331897) ulpERR_ABORT_Not_Supported_Host_Var_Type Currently not
supported host variable type.**

**Cause:** Currently not supported host variable type.

**Action:** Refer to the Precompiler user's manual for available host variables.

**0x5107A ( 331898) ulpERR_ABORT_Column_Value_Is_Null The fetched result
contains a NULL value. or Fetch column value is NULL.**

**Cause:** The fetched result contains a NULL value. or Fetch column value is
NULL.

**Action:** Verify that the stored procedure contains NULL.(Revise the cursor
definition so that no columns possibly containing NULL values are retrieved.)

**0x5107B ( 331899) ulpERR_ABORT_Invalid_PSM_Array_Version Invalid psm array
meta version.**

**Cause:** Invalid psm array meta version.

**Action:** Contact Altibase's Support Center (http://support.altibase.com/en/).

**0x5107C ( 331900) ulpERR_ABORT_Invalid_PSM_Array_Type The apre type and psm
array type do not match.**

**Cause:** The apre host variable type and psm array type do not match.

**Action:** Change the apre host variable types to the data types that are
supported by psm array.

**0x5107D ( 331901) ulpERR_ABORT_PSM_Not_Exist_Error The name of PSM does not exist. (<0%s>)**

**Cause:** There is no PSM with the name you specified.

**Action:** Verify the existence of PSM name and try again.



