# 11.Utilities Error Code

### FATAL

**0x90127 ( 590119) utERR_FATAL_FLOCK_INIT Failed to invoke the flock_init()
system function [\<0%s\>]**

**Cause:**

- The flock_init() system call failed.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x90128 ( 590120) utERR_FATAL_FLOCK_DESTROY Failed to invoke the
flock_destroy() system function [\<0%s\>]**

**Cause:**

- The flock_destroy() system call failed.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x90129 ( 590121) utERR_FATAL_FLOCK_TRYWRLOCK Failed to invoke the
flock_trywrlock() system function**

**Cause:**

- The flock_trywrlock() system call failed.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x9012A ( 590122) utERR_FATAL_FLOCK_UNLOCK Failed to invoke the flock_unlock()
system function**

**Cause:**

- The flock_unlock() system call failed.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x90103 ( 590083) utERR_FATAL_Mutex Mutex Operation Error.(\<0%s\>)**

**Cause:** The application encountered an unexpected error with the mutex.

**Action:** This is possibly a programming error. Check the error number from
the trace log and contact Altibase's Support Center
(http://support.altibase.com/en/)

**0x90121 ( 590113) utERR_FATAL_Signal Signal Operation Error.(\<0%s\>)**

**Cause:** An internal call to a signal function returned an error.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

### ABORT

**0x91002 ( 593922) utERR_ABORT_alreadyExistFileError File (\<0%s\>) already
exists.**

**Cause:** The file already exists.

**Action:** Remove or rename the file.

**0x91003 ( 593923) utERR_ABORT_env_not_exist The environment (\<0%s\>) does not
exist.**

**Cause:** The ALTIBASE environment has not been set.

**Action:** Set the ALTIBASE environment value.

**0x91004 ( 593924) utERR_ABORT_Invalid_dataType_Error Invalid data type
specified.**

**Cause:** The data type to be bound is not valid.

**Action:** Check the data type to be bound.

**0x91005 ( 593925) utERR_ABORT_name_length_overflow_Error The host variable
name length must be less than \<0%d\> characters.**

**Cause:** Host variable name length overflow.

**Action:** Decrease the length of the host variable name.

**0x91006 ( 593926) utERR_ABORT_memory_error Memory allocation
error.(\<0%s\>:\<1%d\>)**

**Cause:** The application failed to allocate memory for an environment handle
with SQLAllocEnv.

**Action:** Verify that there is enough memory to run the application. If
necessary, take action to make more memory available for the application.

**0x91007 ( 593927) utERR_ABORT_host_variable_not_defined_error The host
variable \<0%s\> was not defined.**

**Cause:** Host variable not defined.

**Action:** Define the host variable.

**0x91008 ( 593928) utERR_ABORT_type_mismatch_error Type mismatch error.**

**Cause:** The types do not match.

**Action:** Ensure that the data types are matched.

**0x91009 ( 593929) utERR_ABORT_too_large_error Too large data specified.**

**Cause:** The length of the specified data was too large.

**Action:** Decrease the length of the data.

**0x9100A ( 593930) utERR_ABORT_value_OutOfRange_error Host value out of
range.**

**Cause:** Host value out of range.

**Action:** Check the host value and ensure that it is within range.

**0x9100B ( 593931) utERR_ABORT_account_privilege_error Privilege error for
sysdba user account.**

**Cause:** Sysdba users must be connected with ALTIBASE user accounts.

**Action:** Check the user account.

**0x9100C ( 593932) utERR_ABORT_stat_error stat() system call error
(errno=\<0%d\>)**

**Cause:** The stat() call encountered an error.

**Action:** Check the file system.

**0x9100D ( 593933) utERR_ABORT_Unterminated_error Unterminated user command**

**Cause:** A user command was not terminated properly.

**Action:** Check the command.

**0x9100E ( 593934) utERR_ABORT_open_Syspasswd_FileError could not open
syspassword file (\<0%s\>)**

**Cause:** The syspassword does not exist, or you do not have sufficient
permission.

**Action:** Ensure that the file exists and that you have sufficient permission
to open the file.

**0x9100F ( 593935) utERR_ABORT_Incorrect_Password Incorrect Password**

**Cause:** The password was incorrect.

**Action:** Check the password.

**0x91010 ( 593936) utERR_ABORT_Syntax_Error Syntax Error**

**Cause:** Syntax Error.

**Action:** Check the syntax.

**0x91011 ( 593937) utERR_ABORT_No_History_Error No user command saved**

**Cause:** There are no saved commands.

**Action:** Specify a command and retry.

**0x91012 ( 593938) utERR_ABORT_History_Range_Error History number must be
between 1 and \<0%d\>.**

**Cause:** An incorrect history number was specified.

**Action:** Change the history number and retry.

**0x91013 ( 593939) utERR_ABORT_Too_Long_Query_Error The query was too long; the
maximum length is \<0%d\>.**

**Cause:** The query was too long.

**Action:** Shorten the query.

**0x91105 ( 594181) utERR_ABORT_User_No_Exist_Error The user (\<0%s\>) does not
exist.**

**Cause:** No user with that name exists.

**Action:** Check the user name and try again.

**0x91014 ( 593940) utERR_ABORT_Table_No_Exist_Error The table (\<0%s\>) does
not exist.**

**Cause:** No table with that name exists.

**Action:** Check the table name and try again.

**0x91015 ( 593941) utERR_ABORT_Comm_Failure_Error Communication failure.**

**Cause:** The network connection was closed.

**Action:** Check the dbms server.

**0x91016 ( 593942) utERR_ABORT_Sequence_No_Exist_Error The sequence does not
exist.**

**Cause:** No sequence with that name exists.

**Action:** Check the sequence name.

**0x91017 ( 593943) utERR_ABORT_Invalid_Command_Error The use of this command is
not allowed in a script file.**

**Cause:** Invalid command use.

**Action:** Do not use this command in a script file.

**0x91018 ( 593944) utERR_ABORT_sysdba_privilege_Error reconnect as sysdba.**

**Cause:** The sysdba user must be used for this action.

**Action:** Reconnect as sysdba.

**0x91019 ( 593945) utERR_ABORT_command_buffer_Error ISQL_BUFFER_SIZE must be
greater than \<0%d\>.**

**Cause:** The ISQL_BUFFER_SIZE was too small.

**Action:** Increase the value of the ISQL_BUFFER_SIZE environment variable.

**0x9101A ( 593946) utERR_ABORT_property_omit_Error Property (\<0%s\>) not
found.**

**Cause:** The property was not found.

**Action:** Check whether the property exists.

**0x9101B ( 593947) utERR_ABORT_Column_Size_Error ColSize option value out of
range (\<0%d\> - \<1%d\>)**

**Cause:** An invalid ColSize value was specified.

**Action:** Check the ColSize value.

**0x9101C ( 593948) utERR_ABORT_Page_Size_Error PageSize option value out of
range (\<0%d\> - \<1%d\>)**

**Cause:** An invalid PageSize value was specified.

**Action:** Check the PageSize value.

**0x9101D ( 593949) utERR_ABORT_already_spool_on_Error Spool is already in an ON
state. (\<0%s\>)**

**Cause:** Spool already ON.

**Action:** Turn off the spool and retry.

**0x9101E ( 593950) utERR_ABORT_cant_spool_off_Error Spool is not in an ON
state.**

**Cause:** Can't turn off a spool that is already off.

**Action:** Only attempt this action in a spool-on state.

**0x9101F ( 593951) utERR_ABORT_closeFileError Could not close the file
(\<0%s\>).**

**Cause:** The application failed to close a file.

**Action:** This could be a system problem or programming error. Verify that
there is no problem with your file system. If there is no such problem, check
the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase's Support Center
(http://support.altibase.com/en/).

**0x91020 ( 593952) utERR_ABORT_Not_Connected_Error No Connection State**

**Cause:** No connection exists.

**Action:** Connect first and try again.

**0x91021 ( 593953) utERR_ABORT_Line_Size_Error Line Size option value out of
range (\<0%d\> - \<1%d\>)**

**Cause:** An invalid line size was specified.

**Action:** Check the line size.

**0x91022 ( 593954) utERR_ABORT_UNDISPLAYABLE_DATATYPE_Error LOB and GEOMETRY
type data cannot be displayed**

**Cause:** Can't print LOB or GEOMETRY data using the console.

**Action:** Use a user CLI Application for printing.

**0x91025 ( 593957) utERR_ABORT_WRONG_DATATYPE_Error Unknown data types cannot
be displayed**

**Cause:** Can't print unknown data types using the console.

**Action:** Use a user CLI Application for printing.

**0x91026 ( 593958) utERR_ABORT_Proc_No_Exist_Error The procedure (\<0%s\>) does
not exist.**

**Cause:** There is no procedure with the name you specified.

**Action:** Check the procedure name and try again.

**0x910FA ( 594170) utERR_ABORT_Operation_Canceled Operation cancelled**

**Cause:** SQLCancel was called on the StatementHandle.

**Action:** No action is necessary.

**0x910FB ( 594171) utERR_ABORT_Connected_Idle_Instance_Error Connected to idle
instance**

**Cause:** No error has occurred, this is just a notification of connection to
an idle instance of Altibase.

**Action:** No action is necessary.

**0x910FC ( 594172) utERR_ABORT_Incorrect_User Incorrect user name used
(\<0%s\>).**

**Cause:** Only "sys" user can use "-sysdba" option.

**Action:** Login as "sys" user name to use "-sysdba" option.

**0x91101 ( 594177) utERR_ABORT_LOB_AUTOCOMMIT_MODE_ERR Connection is in
autocommit mode. One cannot operate on LOB data when autocommit mode is on.**

**Cause:** An attempt to execute a LOB operation was made while the connection
was in autocommit mode.

**Action:** Turn off autocommit mode.

**0x91124 ( 594212) utERR_ABORT_GRACE_TIME_WARN The password will expire within
\<0%d\> days.**

**Cause:** The user's account has expired and the password needs to be changed.

**Action:** Change the user's password.

**0x91125 ( 594213) utERR_ABORT_Num_Width_Error NumWidth option value out of
range (\<0%d\> - \<1%d\>).**

**Cause:** An invalid numwidth was specified.

**Action:** Check the numwidth.

**0x91126 ( 594214) utERR_ABORT_INVALID_CONN_ATTR Invalid connection attribute
pair: \<0%s\> = \<1%s\>**

**Cause:** The connection attribute is invalid.

**Action:** Check the connection attribute.

**0x91133 ( 594227) utERR_ABORT_Exceed_Max_String String is too long. Maximum
size is \<0%d\> characters.**

**Cause:** The string is longer than the maximum length.

**Action:** Use a string shorter than the maximum length.

**0x91134 ( 594228) utERR_ABORT_Failed_Open_Path Failed to open the
path.(\<0%s\>: \<1%s\>)**

**Cause:** Either an invalid path was specified or you have insufficient
persmission.

**Action:** Verify that you have entered the correct path or that you have
sufficient permission.

**0x91138 ( 594232) utERR_ABORT_Cancel_Not_Supported Canceling is not
supported.**

**Cause:** The driver does not support the SQLCancel function.

**Action:** Wait for the statement to be completed or close this session using
ALTER DATABASE by another session.

**0x91139 ( 594233) utERR_ABORT_Illegal_Format_String Illegal FORMAT String
(\<0%s\>).**

**Cause:** An invalid format string was specified.

**Action:** Retry again with a valid format string.

**0x9113A ( 594234) utERR_ABORT_Column_Not_Defined Column not defined
(\<0%s\>).**

**Cause:** The specified column name was not defined.

**Action:** Retry again with a valid column name.

**0x9113D ( 594237) utERR_ABORT_Failed_To_Cancel Cancel cannot be done at the
moment.**

**Cause:** The cancel request cannot be accepted at the moment.

**Action:** Wait until the statement is completed.

**0x9113F ( 594239) utERR_ABORT_Failed_To_Sysdba_Connect_Remotely Unable to
connect to deactivated Altibase by remotely using -sysdba option.**

**Cause:** The remote Altibase is not operating.

**Action:** Try again after starting Altibase.

**0x91141 ( 594241) utERR_ABORT_PrefetchRows_Error PrefetchRows option value out
of range (\<0%d\> - \<1%d\>)**

**Cause:** An invalid PrefetchRows value was specified.

**Action:** Check the PrefetchRows value.

**0x91142 ( 594242) utERR_ABORT_AsyncPrefetch_Auto_Warning Unable to run auto
tuning due to the CLI restriction. 'AsyncPrefetch on' will be automatically
applied.**

**Cause:** The auto tuning is only supported on Linux environment.

**Action:** 'AsyncPrefetch on' is automatically applied on operating systems
other than Linux. However, 'AsyncPrefetch on' should be specified whether or not
to display a warning.

**0x91145 ( 594245) utERR_ABORT_Open_Altibase_Properties_FileError Unable to open altibase.properties file.**

**Cause:** The altibase.properties file has not been found.

**Action:** Check altibase.properties file.

**0x91146 ( 594246) utERR_ABORT_FilePerm_OutOfRange_Error File permission value is out of range (<0%s>=<1%s>)**

**Cause:** File permission value is out of range.

**Action:** Use valid file permission value.

**0x91147 ( 594247) utERR_ABORT_Option_No_Value_Error No value specified for the option (<0%s>)**

**Cause:** Option value was not specified.

**Action:** Specify option value.

**0x91148 ( 594248) utERR_ABORT_Option_Invalid_Value_Error Invalid option value specified (<0%s> <1%s>)**

**Cause:** Invalid option value was specified.

**Action:** Use valid option value.

**0x91027 ( 593959) utERR_ABORT_Dup_Option_Error Option (\<0%s\>) is used more
than once.**

**Cause:** A duplicate option was specified.

**Action:** Check the options.

**0x91028 ( 593960) utERR_ABORT_Unknown_Option_Error An unknown Option (\<0%s\>)
was specified.**

**Cause:** An unknown option was specified.

**Action:** Check the option and try again.

**0x91029 ( 593961) utERR_ABORT_Option_Value_Range_Error The option value
(\<0%s\>) must be greater than (\<1%d\>).**

**Cause:** The option value was not within the valid range.

**Action:** Change the option value.

**0x9102A ( 593962) utERR_ABORT_Not_Support_dataType_Error The data type
(\<0%s\>\<1%s\>) \<2%s\>\<3%s\> is not supported.**

**Cause:** An invalid data type was used.

**Action:** Check the data type.

**0x9102B ( 593963) utERR_ABORT_Token_Value_Range_Error Token value length
overflow. Maximum token length=\<0%d\>. Column =\<1%s\>, Value=\<2%s\>**

**Cause:** The token value length exceeded the valid range.

**Action:** Decrease the token length.

**0x9102C ( 593964) utERR_ABORT_Parse_Command_Error Input command parser error**

**Cause:** The command parse token was invalid.

**Action:** Check the token.

**0x9102E ( 593966) utERR_ABORT_Result_Attr_Count_Error Result attribute count
is different. (Form=\<0%d\>, User=\<1%d\>**

**Cause:** The table data type information was different.

**Action:** Check the table information.

**0x9102F ( 593967) utERR_ABORT_Delete_Table_Error Failed to delete record from
table (\<0%s\>)**

**Cause:** Delete operation failed.

**Action:** Check the table recordset.

**0x91030 ( 593968) utERR_ABORT_Arg_omit_Error Argument (\<0%s\>) not found.**

**Cause:** A necessary argument was omitted.

**Action:** Provide the argument and try again.

**0x91031 ( 593969) utERR_ABORT_Option_Incorrect_Error The \<0%s\> option
(\<1%s\>) was not used, or the precedence option is not correct.**

**Cause:** Option use error.

**Action:** Ensure that you are using the options correctly.

**0x91032 ( 593970) utERR_ABORT_Field_Terminator_Error Field, Row and
Enclosingchar terminators must be different.**

**Cause:** A terminator conflict occurred.

**Action:** Use a different terminator.

**0x91033 ( 593971) utERR_ABORT_SQLColumn_Error Field, Row and Enclosingchar
terminators must be different.**

**Cause:** A terminator conflict occurred.

**Action:** Use a different terminator.

**0x91034 ( 593972) utERR_ABORT_no_index_Error The table (<0%s>) does not have an index.**

**Cause:** The table does not have an index.

**Action:** Add an index to the table.

**0x91035 ( 593973) utERR_ABORT_too_many_Seq_Error Too many sequences were used.
(LIMIT=\<0%d\>)**

**Cause:** The number of sequences exceeded the valid range.

**Action:** Decrease the number of sequences.

**0x91036 ( 593974) utERR_ABORT_too_many_Attr_Error Too many attributes were
used. (LIMIT=\<0%d\>)**

**Cause:** The number of attributes exceeded the valid range.

**Action:** Decrease the number of attributes.

**0x91037 ( 593975) utERR_ABORT_No_Column_Sequence_Error No existing column
linked to sequence (\<0%s\>)**

**Cause:** No column is linked to the sequence.

**Action:** Check the form file.

**0x91038 ( 593976) utERR_ABORT_Many_Column_Sequence_Error Duplicate column
(\<0%s\>) to sequence (\<1%d\>) links**

**Cause:** A column is linked to the sequence two or more times.

**Action:** Check form file.

**0x91039 ( 593977) utERR_ABORT_Unkown_Datatype_Error An unknown datatype
\<0%s\> was used.**

**Cause:** An assign attempt was made using an unknown data type.

**Action:** Check the data type used for binding.

**0x9103A ( 593978) utERR_ABORT_Wrong_Column_Count_Error Column count mismatch
(size=\<0%d\>**

**Cause:** Invalid data fetch processing.

**Action:** Check the table information.

**0x9103B ( 593979) utERR_ABORT_Invalid_Option_Error Invalid option (\<0%s\>)**

**Cause:** An invalid option was used.

**Action:** Check the options.

**0x9103C ( 593980) utERR_ABORT_Option_Value_Overflow_Error The option value
(\<0%s\>) must be equal or less than the upper limit (\<1%d\>).**

**Cause:** The option value exceeded the valid range.

**Action:** Change the option value.

**0x9103D ( 593981) utERR_ABORT_Parsing_Error Data parsing error (Column :
\<0%s\>)**

**Cause:** Data parsing error.

**Action:** Check the token.

**0x9103E ( 593982) utERR_ABORT_UserID_Omit_Error A user ID must be specified.**

**Cause:** The user ID was omitted.

**Action:** Enter a user ID.

**0x9103F ( 593983) utERR_ABORT_Password_Omit_Error A password must be
specified.**

**Cause:** The password was omitted.

**Action:** Enter a password.

**0x91040 ( 593984) utERR_ABORT_ServerName_Omit_Error A ServerName must be
specified.**

**Cause:** The server name was omitted.

**Action:** Enter a server name.

**0x91123 ( 594211) utERR_ABORT_Port_Omit_Error No port number was specified.**

**Cause:** The -port option value was omitted.

**Action:** Specify a port number for the port option and try again.

**0x91041 ( 593985) utERR_ABORT_LOB_Opt_Str_Error Missing or invalid LOB option
string.**

**Cause:** A LOB option string is missing or invalid.

**Action:** Check the LOB option string.

**0x91042 ( 593986) utERR_ABORT_Invalid_Value Invalid data value**

**Cause:** The value of the data exceeds the valid range.

**Action:** Check the data value.

**0x9111F ( 594207) utERR_ABORT_Invalid_Value_errno Invalid data value
(errno=\<0%d\>)**

**Cause:** The value of the data exceeds the valid range.

**Action:** Check the data value.

**0x91043 ( 593987) utERR_ABORT_Invalid_Value_Len Invalid data length**

**Cause:** The length of the data exceeds the valid range.

**Action:** Check the length of the data.

**0x91044 ( 593988) utERR_ABORT_Data_File_IO_Error Error occurred during data
file I/O.**

**Cause:** The file does not exist, there is no more space in the filesystem,
the file size is too big, or a similar error has occurred.

**Action:** Check the filesystem.

**0x91045 ( 593989) utERR_ABORT_LOB_File_IO_Error Error occurred during LOB file
I/O.**

**Cause:** The file does not exist, there is no more space in the filesystem,
the file size is too big, or a similar error has occurred.

**Action:** Check the filesystem.

**0x91046 ( 593990) utERR_ABORT_Nls_Use_Error ALTIBASE_NLS_USE does not match
DATA_NLS_USE**

**Cause:** ALTIBASE_NLS_USE does not match DATA_NLS_USE in formout file.

**Action:** Change ALTIBASE_NLS_USE to match DATA_NLS_USE and retry.

**0x91047 ( 593991) utERR_ABORT_CSV_Option_Error The -rule csv option can't be
used with the -t or -e options.**

**Cause:** An attempt was made to use the -rule csv option with the -t or -e
option.

**Action:** Check the options and try again.

**0x910FD ( 594173) utERR_ABORT_Invalid_CSV_File_Format_Error Invalid CSV file
format token. Column=\<0%s\>, Value=\<1%s\>.**

**Cause:** The CSV file format is wrong.

**Action:** Check the CSV data file.

**0x91100 ( 594176) utERR_ABORT_File_Lock_Error File [\<0%s\>] open failed.
Already in use.**

**Cause:** The specified file is already in use.

**Action:** Check whether the file is already in use.

**0x91102 ( 594178) utERR_ABORT_Form_Parser_Error Input form parser error.**

**Cause:** The form file is wrong.

**Action:** Check the form file.

**0x91104 ( 594180) utERR_ABORT_OutFile_IO_Error An error occurred during file
output.**

**Cause:** The file does not exist, there is no more space in the file system,
the file size is too big, or a similar error has occurred.

**Action:** Check the file system.

**0x91106 ( 594182) utERR_ABORT_Bad_File_IO_Error An error occurred during bad
file I/O.**

**Cause:** The file does not exist, there is no more space in the file system,
the file size is too big, or a similar error has occurred.

**Action:** Check the file system.

**0x91107 ( 594183) utERR_ABORT_Log_File_IO_Error An error occurred during log
file I/O.**

**Cause:** The file does not exist, there is no more space in the file system,
the file size is too big, or a similar error has occurred.

**Action:** Check the file system.

**0x9113B ( 594235) utERR_ABORT_Param_Count_Mismatch Parameter count mismatch.
Required=(\<0%d\>), INSERT statement=(\<1%s\>).**

**Cause:** The number of parameters in the INSERT statement is different from
the number of table columns.

**Action:** Check the form file.

**0x9113E ( 594238) utERR_ABORT_Prefetch_Row_Error -prefetch_row option value
out of range (\<0%d\> - \<1%d\>)**

**Cause:** An invalid PrefetchRow value was specified.

**Action:** Check the PrefetchRow value.

**0x91140 ( 594240) utERR_ABORT_Async_Prefetch_Auto_Warning Unable to run auto
tuning due to the CLI restriction. '-async_prefetch on' will be automatically
applied.**

**Cause:** The auto tuning is only supported on Linux environment.

**Action:** '-async_prefetch on' is automatically applied on operating systems
other than Linux to execute an iloader out command. However, '-async_prefetch
on' should be specified whether or not to display a warning.

**0x91064 ( 594020) utERR_ABORT_password_Error Cound not find the password for
user (\<0%s\>)**

**Cause:** Could not get user information.

**Action:** Check the user name and try again.

**0x91065 ( 594021) utERR_ABORT_aexport_Property_Error Invalid property value
(\<0%s\>).**

**Cause:** An invalid property value was assigned, or the value was omitted.

**Action:** Check the property value.

**0x91066 ( 594022) utERR_ABORT_Property_Loading_Error Property File Loading
Error.(\<0%s\>)**

**Cause:** An invalid or nonexistent property path was specified.

**Action:** Check the property file.

**0x910C8 ( 594120) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_Alloc_Handle_Error Can't get the Handle
from \<0%s\>**

Altibase could not initialize SQLEnv; an OCIEnv handle could not be
allocated.

**Cause:** The application failed to allocate memory for an environment handle
with SQLAllocEnv.

**Action:** Verify that there is enough memory to run the application. If
necessary, make more memory available for the application.

**0x910C9 ( 594121) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_Already_Conn_Error Already connected to
server.**

Connection already initialized!

**Cause:** The application attempted to use an uninitialized connection handle.

**Action:** This is possibly a programming error. Check the error number from
the trace log and contact Altibase's Support Center
(http://support.altibase.com/en/).

**0x910CA ( 594122) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_Create_Instance_Error Failed to create
object \<0%s\>**

**Cause:** The application failed to allocate memory to create an object.

**Action:** Verify that there is enough memory to run the application. If
necessary, make more memory available for the application.

**0x910CC ( 594124) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_Check_Log_File_Error Failed to open the
log file \<0%s\>**

ERROR: %s, Check your log dir and log file properties.

**Cause:** Failed to open the log file.

**Action:** Check the log file designated in the properties and the permissions
mode of the log file.

**0x910CD ( 594125) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_Wrong_Parameter_Error A parameter is
incorrect**

ERROR: A parameter is incorrect.

**Cause:** An invalid parameter was used.

**Action:** Check the parameters.

**0x910CE ( 594126) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_Not_Found_Parameter_Error Invalid Property
Name \<0%s\> Assigned.**

ERROR: Properties parameter (%s) is not defined.

**Cause:** An invalid property name has been defined.

**Action:** Check the property name in the property file.

**0x910CF ( 594127) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_ERANGE_Error The value of the properties
parameter \<0%s\> was out of range**

ERROR: The value of the properties parameter %s was out of range.

**Cause:** The parameter's value is incorrect.

**Action:** Check the value of the parameter.

**0x910D0 ( 594128) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_EINVAL_Error Properties parameter \<0%s\>
no conversion was performed, wrong parameter**

ERROR:Properties parameter %s no conversion was performed, wrong parameter

**Cause:** The parameter was incorrect.

**Action:** Check the parameter.

**0x910D1 ( 594129) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_NULL_Parameter_Error Undefined Property
\<0%s\>.**

ERROR: The properties parameter %s key is NULL.

**Cause:** Property not defined in the property file.

**Action:** Check the property file.

**0x910D2 ( 594130) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_Invalid_Parameter_Error An invalid
property value \<0%s\> was defined.**

Invalid property: %s

**Cause:** An invalid property value was defined in the property file.

**Action:** Check the property value.

**0x910D3 ( 594131) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_Wrong_URL_Error Invalid DBMS URL.**

ERROR[ PROP ] Incorrect DBMS connection URL.

**Cause:** The URL for connection to the DBMS is incorrect.

**Action:** Check the URL.

**0x910D4 ( 594132) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_Alloc_Memory_Error Memory Allocation
failed.**

ERROR[ PROP ] Could not allocate memory

**Cause:** The application failed to allocate memory.

**Action:** Verify that there is enough memory to run the application. If
necessary, make more memory available for the application.

**0x910D5 ( 594133) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_Different_Column_Error The column counts
for (\<0%s\>) and (\<1%s\>) are different.**

The tables (%s,%s) have different column counts.

**Cause:** The master and slave have different table column counts.

**Action:** Ensure that the table schema for the master and slave are the same.

**0x910D6 ( 594134) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_DIFF_File_Open_Error Failed to open audit
diff file \<0%s\>.**

utScanner can't open DIFF log file:'%s'.

**Cause:** Failed to open log file.

**Action:** Check the log file name and permissions mode of the files.

**0x910D7 ( 594135) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_PK_Different_Order_Error The order of the
primary key on the master(\<0%s\>) is different from that on the slave
(\<1%s\>).**

The master (%s) and slave (%s) have different primary key orders.

**Cause:** The primary key orders on the master and slave are different.

**Action:** Ensure that the table schema for the master and slave are the same.

**0x910D8 ( 594136) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_Master_No_PK_Error No primary key column
exists (\<0%s\>:\<1%s\>)**

The tables (%s,%s) have no primary keys.

**Cause:** The master table does not have a primary key column.

**Action:** Change the master table so that is has a primary key column.

**0x910D9 ( 594137) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_Different_PK_Columns_Error The PK column
count for (\<0%s\>) is different than that for (\<1%s\>)**

The primary key structures for the tables(%s,%s) are different.

**Cause:** The number of primary key columns in the master table is different
from that in the slave table.

**Action:** Ensure that the table schema for the master and slave are the same.

**0x910DA ( 594138) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_PK_CanNotBe_EXCLUDE_Error Primary key
columns cannot be defined as EXCLUDE columns (\<0%s\>)**

Exclusion column cannot be primary key field '%s'.

**Cause:** Primary key columns cannot be defined as EXCLUDE columns.

**Action:** Check the EXCLUDE property value.

**0x910DB ( 594139) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_NOT_Fount_Column_EXCLUDE_Error Invalid
column defined in EXCLUDE property (\<0%s\>)**

Exclusion column '%s' is not found.

**Cause:** An invalid column was defined in the property file's EXCLUDE
property.

**Action:** Check the EXCLUDE property value.

**0x910DC ( 594140) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_Thread_Join_Error thread_join() \<0%d\>
failed.**

ERROR [ MNG ] Join \#%d failure!

**Cause:** The application encountered an error while joining threads.

**Action:** This is possibly a programming error. Check the error number from
the trace log and contact Altibase's Support Center
(http://support.altibase.com/en/).

**0x910DD ( 594141) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_Connect_TO_Master_Error Failed to connect
to master \<0%s\> server**

Cannot connect to master server: '%s'

**Cause:** Failed to connect to the master server.

**Action:** Check the connection information.

**0x910DE ( 594142) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_Connect_TO_Slaver_Error Failed to connect
to slave \<0%s\> server**

Cannot connect to slave server: '%s'

**Cause:** Failed to connect to the slave server.

**Action:** Check the connection information.

**0x910DF ( 594143) utERR_ABORT_openFileError Could not open file (\<0%s\>)**

**Cause:** The file does not exist, or does not have the appropriate
permissions.

**Action:** Check the permission settings of the file and whether the file
exists.

**0x910E0 ( 594144) utERR_ABORT_sysdba_connect_Error You cannot connect to the
server remotely with the sysdba option.**

**Cause:** You cannot connect to a server remotely with the sysdba option.

**Action:** Check the SERVER and PORT_NO options.

**0x910E1 ( 594145) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_Managing_Thread_Filemode Thread management
failed for the file mode with table \<0%s\> and \<1%s\>.**

Thread management is failed.

**Cause:** The application encountered an error while handling a thread.

**Action:** This is possibly a programming error. Check the error number from
the trace log and contact Altibase's Support Center
(http://support.altibase.com/en/).

**0x910E2 ( 594146) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_File_Open_4CSVfile Could not create or
open the \<0%s\> csv file.**

ERROR: %s, check your csv file properties and disk.

**Cause:** An attempt to create or open a csv file failed.

**Action:** Check the file system disk and try again.

**0x910E3 ( 594147) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_File_Close_4CSVfile Could not close the
\<0%s\> csv file.**

ERROR: %s, check your csv file properties and disk.

**Cause:** An attempt to close a csv file failed.

**Action:** Check the file system disk and try again.

**0x910E4 ( 594148) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_File_Write_4CSVfile Could not write to the
\<0%s\> csv file.**

ERROR: %s, check your csv file properties and disk.

**Cause:** An attempt to write to a csv file failed.

**Action:** Check the file system disk and try again.

**0x910E5 ( 594149) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_Cursor_Close A cursor was not closed
correctly.**

**Cause:** A cursor was not closed correctly.

**Action:** Check the statement.

**0x910E6 ( 594150) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_File_Read_4CSVfile Could not read the
\<0%s\> csv file.**

ERROR: %s, check your csv file properties and disk.

**Cause:** An attempt to read a csv file failed.

**Action:** Check the file system disk and try again.

**0x910E7 ( 594151) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_Wrong_CSV_Format Wrong CSV file format.
(\<0%s\>)**

ERROR: %s, check your csv file content.

**Cause:** The attempt to convert data from the CSV file format to the original
data format failed.

**Action:** Check the csv file and try again.

**0x910E8 ( 594152) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_CSV_Token_Buffer_Overflow Buffer overflow
occurred during CSV format conversion. (data:'\<0%s\>')**

ERROR: %s, check your csv file content.

**Cause:** The attempt to convert data from the CSV file format to the original
data format failed.

**Action:** Check the csv file and try again.

**0x9113C ( 594236) utERR_ABORT_Table_Not_Found_Error The table
(\<0%s\>.\<1%s\>) specified in the configuration file does not exist on the
\<2%s\> database.**

**Cause:** The specified table does not exist in the database.

**Action:** Check to see if the specified table name located in the altiComp
configuration file is correct.

**0x91143 ( 594243) utERR_ABORT_AUDIT_DB_Error Error occurred on the database while processing LOB data. (<0%s>)**

**Cause:** The specified error returned from the database.

**Action:** Send a bug report to the vendor

**0x91108 ( 594184) utERR_ABORT_UPLOAD_Error Could not upload the entire data
file.**

Cannot upload file

**Cause:** The data file appears to be invalid.

**Action:** Check the data file and try again.

**0x91109 ( 594185) utERR_ABORT_LIB_VERSION_Error An iLoader library version
incompatibility error occurred.**

**Cause:** An iLoader library version incompatibility error occurred.

**Action:** Check the iLoader library version.

**0x9110A ( 594186) utERR_ABORT_THREAD_Error Could not create a new thread.**

**Cause:** A platform kernel limit pertaining to the number of threads or memory
usage was exceeded.

**Action:** Decrease the number of threads.

**0x9110B ( 594187) utERR_ABORT_INVALID_USE_OF_NULL_POINTER Invalid use of null
pointer. (\<0%s\>)**

**Cause:** A null pointer was used.

**Action:** Check the pointer and try again.

**0x9110C ( 594188) utERR_ABORT_OPTION_VERSION_Error A library option version
incompatibility error occurred.**

**Cause:** Different library option versions are in use.

**Action:** Check the option versions.

**0x9110D ( 594189) utERR_ABORT_INVALID_ATTR_OPTION Invalid attribute/option
identifier : \<0%d\>.**

**Cause:** An invalid attribute/option identifier was used.

**Action:** Send a bug report to the vendor

**0x9110E ( 594190) utERR_ABORT_Unsupported_Feature Unsupported feature :
\<0%s\>**

**Cause:** This feature is not supported.

**Action:** Do not use this feature.

**0x9110F ( 594191) utERR_ABORT_MsgLog_Init_Error Unable to initialize message
log file.**

**Cause:** Unable to initialize a message log file.

**Action:** Check that the path and filename are correct and that suitable
permissions have been granted.

**0x91110 ( 594192) utERR_ABORT_LockFile_Init_Error Unable to initialize file
lock.[\<0%s\>]**

**Cause:** An attempt to initialize a file lock failed.

**Action:** Check that the path and filename are correct and that suitable
permissions have been granted.

**0x91111 ( 594193) utERR_ABORT_LockFile_Destroy_Error Unable to destroy file
lock.[\<0%s\>]**

**Cause:** An attempt to destroy a file lock failed.

**Action:** Check that the path and filename are correct and that suitable
permissions have been granted.

**0x91112 ( 594194) utERR_ABORT_LockFile_Not_Exist File to be locked does not
exist.[\<0%s\>]**

**Cause:** The file to be locked does not exist.

**Action:** Check that the path and filename are correct and that suitable
permissions have been granted.

**0x91113 ( 594195) utERR_ABORT_FileLock_Hold_Error Could not hold a lock on a
file.**

**Cause:** A lock on a file could not be held.

**Action:** Check that the path and filename are correct and that suitable
permissions have been granted.

**0x91114 ( 594196) utERR_ABORT_FileLock_Release_Error Could not release a lock
on a file.**

**Cause:** A lock on a file could not be released.

**Action:** Check that the path and filename are correct and that suitable
permissions have been granted.

**0x91115 ( 594197) utERR_ABORT_Failed_To_Check_Server_Running Could not obtain
server status; possible socket problem.**

**Cause:** The server status could not be determined.

**Action:** Check for a socket problem.

**0x91116 ( 594198) utERR_ABORT_PidFile_Failed_To_Check_Exist Unable to verify
the existence of pid file : \<0%s\>**

**Cause:** The existence of a pid file could not be verified.

**Action:** Check that the path and filename are correct and that suitable
permissions have been granted.

**0x91117 ( 594199) utERR_ABORT_PidFile_Exist Pid file (\<0%s\>) exists.**

**Cause:** The pid file already exists.

**Action:** Check the checkServer process and then run killCheckServer.
Alternatively, delete the pid file and run checkServer.

**0x91118 ( 594200) utERR_ABORT_PidFile_Create_Error Unable to create the pid
file [rc:\<0%d\>]**

**Cause:** The pid file could not be created.

**Action:** Check that the path and filename are correct and that suitable
permissions have been granted.

**0x91119 ( 594201) utERR_ABORT_PidFile_Remove_Error Unable to remove the pid
file [rc:\<0%d\>]**

**Cause:** The pid file could not be removed.

**Action:** Check that the path and filename are correct and that suitable
permissions have been granted.

**0x9111A ( 594202) utERR_ABORT_PidFile_Open_Error Unable to open the pid file
[rc:\<0%d\>]**

**Cause:** The pid file could not be opened.

**Action:** Check that the path and filename are correct and that suitable
permissions have been granted.

**0x9111B ( 594203) utERR_ABORT_PidFile_Close_Error Unable to close pid file
[rc:\<0%d\>]**

**Cause:** The pid file could not be closed.

**Action:** Check that the path and filename are correct and that suitable
permissions have been granted.

**0x9111C ( 594204) utERR_ABORT_PidFile_Read_Error pid structure read error
[rc:\<0%d\>]**

**Cause:** The pid could not be read from the pid file.

**Action:** Check that the path and filename are correct, that suitable
permissions have been granted, and that the pid file is valid.

**0x9111D ( 594205) utERR_ABORT_PidFile_Write_Error pid structure write error
[rc:\<0%d\>]**

**Cause:** The pid could not be written to the pid file.

**Action:** Check that the path and filename are correct and that suitable
permissions have been granted.

**0x9111E ( 594206) utERR_ABORT_Process_Kill_Error Unable to kill the process
[pid:\<0%d\>]**

**Cause:** An attempt to kill a process failed.

**Action:** Check whether the process has already been killed.

**0x91120 ( 594208) utERR_ABORT_FUNCTION_SEQUENCE_ERR Function sequence error.**

**Cause:** The order in which function calls were made is invalid.

**Action:** Refer to the state transition table to determine the correct
function call order.

**0x9112E ( 594222) utERR_ABORT_DAEMON_SUPPORT_ERR The daemon process supports
only tcp connection.**

**Cause:** The daemon process supports only tcp connection.

**Action:** Please reconnect to the daemon process with tcp connection.

**0x91122 ( 594210) utERR_ABORT_NOT_EXIST_TABLESPACE_ERR The default tablespace
for the user \<0%s\> does not exist.**

**Cause:** The tablespace that was set as the default for this user has been
modified or deleted.

**Action:** Set the default tablespace for this user and run aexport again.

**0x9112B ( 594219) utERR_ABORT_Insufficient_Priv_Error Needs the CREATE TABLE
privilege to analyze object dependencies.**

**Cause:** The user needs the CREATE TABLE privilege to analyze object
dependencies.

**Action:** Grant the CREATE TABLE or CREATE ANY TABLE privileges to the user
and re-execute aexport.

**0x9112C ( 594220) utERR_ABORT_Db_Charset_Fetch_Error Unable to fetch the
database character set.**

**Cause:** Failed to fetch the database character set.

**Action:** Set the -NLS_USE parameter or the ALTIBASE_NLS_USE environment
variable and re-execute aexport.

**0x9112D ( 594221) utERR_ABORT_Repl_Offline_Log_Path_Fetch_Error Unable to
fetch log directory paths for the replication \<0%s\> in offline mode.**

**Cause:** Failed to fetch log directory paths for the replication in offline
mode.

**Action:** This is possibly meta inconsistency. Contact Altibase's Support
Center (http://support.altibase.com/en/)

**0x9112F ( 594223) utERR_ABORT_INVALID_FMT Invalid file format**

**Cause:** Failed to read from the profiling file.

**Action:** Check the versions of the profiling file and the altiProfile tool.

**0x91130 ( 594224) utERR_ABORT_FILE_OPEN Unable to open file (\<0%s\>)**

**Cause:** The path or filename is invalid.

**Action:** Verify that the path and filename are correct and that you have
read/write permission for the file.

**0x91131 ( 594225) utERR_ABORT_FILE_CLOSE Unable to close file (\<0%d\>)**

**Cause:** An invalid file handle was specified.

**Action:** Memory corruption may occur. Check the error number and contact
Altibase's Support Center (http://support.altibase.com/en/).

**0x91132 ( 594226) utERR_ABORT_INVALID_HANDLE Invalid Handle**

**Cause:** NULL handle was specified.

**Action:** Memory corruption may occur. Check the error number and contact
Altibase's Support Center (http://support.altibase.com/en/).

**0x91135 ( 594229) utERR_ABORT_INVALID_ALTIWRAP_COMMAND Invalid command
arguments.**

**Cause:** Invalid command arguments.

**Action:** Verify that the command arguments are valid.

**0x91136 ( 594230) utERR_ABORT_MEMORY_ALLOCATION Insufficient memory for PSM
Query Encryption.**

**Cause:** Insufficient memory.

**Action:** Verify that the system has enough available memory.

**0x91137 ( 594231) utERR_ABORT_TOO_LONG_PATH_NAME The path name was too long;
the maximum length is \<0%d\>.**

**Cause:** The path name was too long.

**Action:** Shorten the path name.

### IGNORE

**0x92001 ( 598017) utERR_IGNORE_NoError No UT module error**

**Cause:** This is not an error.

**Action:** You can safely ignore this error message.



