# 12.Database Link Error Code

### FATAL

**0xC000F ( 786447) dkERR_FATAL_ThrMutexInit Unable to initialize a mutex**

**Cause:** The system failed to initialize a mutex.

**Action:** Check the error number in the trace log and contact your operating system engineer.

**0xC002D ( 786477) dkERR_FATAL_DK_FAILED A fatal error occurred!! This error is very critical.**

**Cause:** Undefined error 

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

### ABORT

**0xC1000 ( 790528) dkERR_ABORT_NotSupportOperation Not supported operation**

**Cause:** The current operation isn't supported yet.

**Action:** Verify that the current operation is valid.

**0xC1001 ( 790529) dkERR_ABORT_MEMORY_ALLOCATION Insufficient memory for Database Link**

**Cause:** The memory manager could not allocate sufficient memory for the query processor.

**Action:** Verify that the system has sufficient memory.

**0xC1002 ( 790530) dkERR_ABORT_DK_FUNCTION_NOT_ALLOWED This function is executable only in an execute procedure/function statement**

**Cause:** The function was called in DML.

**Action:** Use this function only in an EXECUTE statement.

**0xC1003 ( 790531) dkERR_ABORT_DK_MISMATCHED_COLUMN_TYPE Type mismatched column type and return type**

**Cause:** The column type and return type do not match.

**Action:** Check the column specification.

**0xC1004 ( 790532) dkERR_ABORT_DK_UNSUPPORTED_COLUMN_TYPE Not supported column type of remote database**

**Cause:** The column type is unsupported.

**Action:** Check the column specification of database link.

**0xC1005 ( 790533) dkERR_ABORT_DK_PARSING_DBLINK_CONF_FAILED Cannot parse dblink.conf - <0%s>**

**Cause:** The dblink.conf file could not be parsed.

**Action:** Check the dblink.conf file.

**0xC1006 ( 790534) dkERR_ABORT_DK_OPEN_DBLINK_CONF_FAILED Cannot open dblink.conf**

**Cause:** The dblink.conf file could not be opened.

**Action:** Check the dblink.conf file.

**0xC1007 ( 790535) dkERR_ABORT_DK_NO_HOME_DIRECTORY The 'ALTIBASE_HOME' environment must be set**

**Cause:** The environment variable 'ALTIBASE_HOME' is not set.

**Action:** Check the environment variable 'ALTIBASE_HOME'.

**0xC1008 ( 790536) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_SESSION_INIT_FAILED Failed to initialize a linker data session (Session Id:<0%d>)**

**Cause:** The number of linker data sessions is full.

**Action:** Check the number of sessions from performance view.

**0xC1009 ( 790537) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_GTX_PREPARE_PHASE_FAILED Remote atomic transaction in prepare phase failed**

**Cause:** There is a network problem or protocol version inconsistency between Altibase and the AltiLinker process.

**Action:** Check the network or product version.

**0xC100A ( 790538) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_GTX_COMMIT_PHASE_FAILED Remote atomic transaction in commit phase failed**

**Cause:** There is a network problem or protocol version inconsistency between Altibase and the AltiLinker process.

**Action:** Check the number of sessions from performance views.

**0xC100B ( 790539) dkERR_ABORT_DK_INVALID_TX_LEVEL Invalid atomic transaction level value for remote transaction**

**Cause:** An invalid atomic transaction level is set.

**Action:** Check this transaction information from performance view.

**0xC100C ( 790540) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_GTX_ROLLBACK_IMPOSSIBLE Cannot rollback the remote transaction**

**Cause:** The remote server currently has the autocommit mode set to ‘On’.

**Action:** Check the atomic transaction level and the auto-commit mode of the remote server.

**0xC100D ( 790541) dkERR_ABORT_DKT_ROLLBACK_FAILED Failed to rollback the remote transaction**

**Cause:** There is a network problem or protocol version inconsistency between Altibase and the AltiLinker process.

**Action:** Check the network or product version.

**0xC100E ( 790542) dkERR_ABORT_DKT_GLOBAL_COORDINATOR_NOT_EXIST The global coordinator does not exist**

**Cause:** A global transaction can not be handled from an invalid transaction ID.

**Action:** Check the transaction information using performance views.

**0xC1010 ( 790544) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_INVALID_DBLINK Unable to find a database link**

**Cause:** A database link is removed or the wrong database link name is used.

**Action:** Verify that the correct database link name is being used through the use of performance views.

**0xC1011 ( 790545) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_INVALID_REMOTE_STMT Unable to find a remote statemtent**

**Cause:** The remote statement has finished processing.

**Action:** Check the remote statement information using performance views.

**0xC1012 ( 790546) dkERR_ABORT_DKT_INVALID_REMOTE_TX Unable to find a remote transaction**

**Cause:** The remote transaction has finished processing.

**Action:** Check the remote transaction information using performance views.

**0xC1013 ( 790547) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_COMMIT_FAILED Failed to commit a remote transaction**

**Cause:** A network problem occurred.

**Action:** Check the transaction or session information using performance views, and consider using 'commit force'.

**0xC1014 ( 790548) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_ROLLBACK_IMPOSSIBLE Unable to rollback remote transaction**

**Cause:** The autocommit mode is not set correctly, or the atomic transaction level is set to 'remote statement execution level.'

**Action:** Check the auto-commit mode or atomic transaction level.

**0xC1015 ( 790549) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_DBLINK_ALREADY_EXIST Database link already exists**

**Cause:** A database link already exists.

**Action:** Check the database link information using performance views.

**0xC1016 ( 790550) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_INVALID_USER_MODE Invalid user mode**

**Cause:** An input value for user mode is invalid.

**Action:** Check if the input value for the user mode is set to 'PUBLIC' or 'PRIVATE'.

**0xC1017 ( 790551) dkERR_ABORT_DKS_ALLOC_LINK [Network] Failed to allocate a communication link**

**Cause:** Failed to create a llink object due to insufficient memory.

**Action:** Check the error number in the trace log and take appropriate action.

**0xC1018 ( 790552) dkERR_ABORT_DKS_ALLOC_CM_BLOCK [Network] Failed to allocate a communication block**

**Cause:** Failed to allocate a memory buffer for network communication.

**Action:** Check the error number in the trace log and take appropriate action.

**0xC1019 ( 790553) dkERR_ABORT_DKS_SHUTDOWN_LINK [Network] Failed to shutdown a communication link**

**Cause:** The other party closed the socket before the network was shut down.

**Action:** You may safely ignore this error.

**0xC101A ( 790554) dkERR_ABORT_DKS_CLOSE_LINK [Network] Failed to close a communication link**

**Cause:** The network socket was closed.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0xC101B ( 790555) dkERR_ABORT_DKS_FREE_CM_BLOCK [Network] Failed to free a communication read or write block**

**Cause:** An allocated memory buffer was freed.

**Action:** Check the error number and take the appropriate action.

**0xC101C ( 790556) dkERR_ABORT_DKS_FREE_LINK [Network] Failed to free a communication link**

**Cause:** A created link object was freed.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0xC101D ( 790557) dkERR_ABORT_DKO_DBLINK_IS_BEING_USED Database link already being used**

**Cause:** An attempt was made to shut down the database link while it was being used by another session.

**Action:** Check the performance view for dynamic database link information.

**0xC101E ( 790558) dkERR_ABORT_DKO_DBLINK_ALREADY_EXIST Database link name already exists**

**Cause:** There was an attempt to create a database link with a name that already exists.

**Action:** Check the meta table and verify that the database link name does not conflict with an existing object.

**0xC101F ( 790559) dkERR_ABORT_DKA_ACCESS_LINKER_EXEC_FILE Unable to get the Altilinker process execution file.**

**Cause:** An AltiLinker process execution file does not exist or the wrong file path is used.

**Action:** Can not find or access the 'ALTIBASE_HOME/bin/altilinker.jar' file.

**0xC1020 ( 790560) dkERR_ABORT_DKA_FORK_EXEC_LINKER_PROCESS Unable to execute Altilinker process.**

**Cause:** Failed to start the AltiLinker process.

**Action:** Check whether JAVA_HOME is specified, or whether you have the execute privilege, or whether there are too many symbolic links. If none of the above are wrong, check the error number in the trace log and take appropriate action.

**0xC1021 ( 790561) dkERR_ABORT_DKS_LINKER_SESSION_CONNECT [Network] Failed to connect with Altilinker process.**

**Cause:** cmiConnectWithoutData() returned an error

**Action:** Check the network connection or verify that the AltiLinker process running.

**0xC1022 ( 790562) dkERR_ABORT_ADLP_PROTOCOL ADLP protocol failed to work**

**Cause:** ADLP protocol error.

**Action:** Check the version of the AltiLinker process and Altibase server or check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0xC1023 ( 790563) dkERR_ABORT_DKP_TIMEOUT [Network] A timeout occurred**

**Cause:** Network failure.

**Action:** Check network connection or check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0xC1024 ( 790564) dkERR_ABORT_DKP_ANALYZE_ADLP_HEADER [Network] Failed to analyze an ADLP header**

**Cause:** Network failure or wrong protocol version

**Action:** Check network connection or check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0xC1025 ( 790565) dkERR_ABORT_DKP_CMI_SEND [Network] Failed to send a packet**

**Cause:** cmiSend() returned an error

**Action:** Check the network connection, whether the AltiLinker process is running or check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0xC1026 ( 790566) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_ALTILINKER_DISABLED Failed to execute Altilinker process**

**Cause:** The user tried to start the AltiLinker process but it was disabled.

**Action:** Check the property file 'dblink.conf'.

**0xC1027 ( 790567) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_ALTILINKER_ALREAY_RUNNING Altilinker process already running**

**Cause:** The AltiLinker process is already running.

**Action:** Check if an AltiLinker process is already running.

**0xC1028 ( 790568) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_ALTILINKER_IS_NOT_RUNNING No running Altilinker process**

**Cause:** The AltiLinker process is not running.

**Action:** Check if an AltiLinker process is running.

**0xC1029 ( 790569) dkERR_ABORT_DTK_REMOTE_SERVER_ERROR Remote server error occurred ( Error code: <0%d>, SQL state: <1%s>, Description: <2%s> )**

**Cause:** There was a remote server error caused by a syntax error in the remote statement

**Action:** Check the syntax of the remote statement and check the remote server error logs.

**0xC102A ( 790570) dkERR_ABORT_DKT_INVALID_JDBC_DRIVER Invalid JDBC driver**

**Cause:** The JDBC driver either does not exist or is invalid.

**Action:** Check the directory and the JDBC drivers.

**0xC102B ( 790571) dkERR_ABORT_DKT_INVALID_STMT_TYPE Invalid remote statement type**

**Cause:** There is a misapplication of the procedure function.

**Action:** Check the syntax of the remote statement.

**0xC102C ( 790572) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_GET_ERROR_INFO Failed to get remote statement execution error information**

**Cause:** This error was either not caused by the remote server, or was simply not executed yet.

**Action:** Verify that the remote statement executed and check the remote server's log files.

**0xC102E ( 790574) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_REMOTE_STMT_IS_NOT_FAILED No error for the remote statement**

**Cause:** The function was called successfully, so there is no remote_statement_id to pass to the REMOTE_GET_ERROR_INFO function.

**Action:** Check the result of the remote statement execution.

**0xC102F ( 790575) dkERR_ABORT_DKP_INVALID_REMOTE_STMT Invalid remote statement id detected in protocol operation**

**Cause:** Altibase received the query results of a terminated session from AltiLinker.

**Action:** Forcefully kill AltiLinker, then execute the ALTER DATABASE LINKER STOP FORCE command, and then execute the ALTER DATABASE LINKER START command.

**0xC1030 ( 790576) dkERR_ABORT_DKT_GLOBAL_TX_NOT_PREPARED Global transaction not prepared to commit**

**Cause:** Network error or internal malfunction.

**Action:** Check the network and check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0xC1031 ( 790577) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_DBLINK_DISABLED dblink disabled**

**Cause:** Dblink disabled.

**Action:** Check the altibase.properties file and set the correct value.

**0xC1032 ( 790578) dkERR_ABORT_TRAVERSE_NOT_APPLICABLE Impossible to traverse**

**Cause:** The traverse is impossible.

**Action:** Verify that the traverse is valid.

**0xC1033 ( 790579) dkERR_ABORT_FUNCTION_NOT_AVAILABLE The function is not available**

**Cause:** The function doesn't have to be called.

**Action:** Please make sure that the function is valid.

**0xC1034 ( 790580) dkERR_ABORT_META_IS_DIFFERENT Remote table's meta has changed**

**Cause:** The AltiLinker process is not running.

**Action:** Check if an AltiLinker process is running.

**0xC1036 ( 790582) dkERR_ABORT_DKO_DBLINK_NOT_EXIST A database link does not exist**

**Cause:** The specified database link does not exist.

**Action:** Verify that the correct database link was specified, or use performance views to check for available database links.

**0xC1037 ( 790583) dkERR_ABORT_ARGUMENT_IS_NOT_CONSTANT The argument is not a constant value**

**Cause:** The argument is not a constant value.

**Action:** Check the function's arguments.

**0xC1038 ( 790584) dkERR_ABORT_ARGUMENT_IS_NOT_PROPER_TYPE The argument is not proper type**

**Cause:** The argument is not of the smallint or integer types.

**Action:** Check the function's arguments.

**0xC1039 ( 790585) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_INVALID_TARGET Unable to find a valid target**

**Cause:** A database link property file is not set correctly.

**Action:** Check the JDBC driver or the URL of the target remote server in the database link property file.

**0xC103A ( 790586) dkERR_ABORT_DKS_REMOTE_SESSION_IS_BUSY Unable to close session, a remote node session is busy**

**Cause:** There is a currently executing remote statement.

**Action:** Check performance views to find the remote transaction or statement, and then close the session after commiting or rolling back the remote transaction.

**0xC103B ( 790587) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_DATA_SESSION_NOT_EXIST No linker data session exists**

**Cause:** There is a currently executing remote statement.

**Action:** Check performance views to find the remote transaction or statement, and then close the session after commiting or rolling back the remote transaction.

**0xC103C ( 790588) dkERR_ABORT_DKS_SESSION_NOT_EXIST Session not exist**

**Cause:** Tried to connect using a session that does not exist

**Action:** Please check a performance view for session information and close session

**0xC103D ( 790589) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_INVALID_COLUMN Unable to find column meta**

**Cause:** Wrong column index used or this column does not exist.

**Action:** Check the 'REMOTE_GET_COLUMN_VALUE' function in the procedure.

**0xC103E ( 790590) dkERR_ABORT_DKT_REMOTE_SERVER_DISCONNECT [Network] Unable to access a remote server**

**Cause:** An incorrect user ID or password was specified for the target remote server, or the connection was disconnected.

**Action:** Check the TARGET item in the 'dblink.conf' configuration file or check the connection with the target remote server.

**0xC103F ( 790591) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_COLUMN_VALUE_NULL No column value**

**Cause:** REMOTE_GET_COLUMN_VALUE_ function is used against a column which has no value.

**Action:** Check the procedure.

**0xC1041 ( 790593) dkERR_ABORT_DKD_REMOTE_QUERY_EMPTY Empty remote query**

**Cause:** The remote query is empty.

**Action:** Check the remote query.

**0xC1042 ( 790594) dkERR_ABORT_DKD_NO_COLUMN No column**

**Cause:** There is no column.

**Action:** Check column count and information.

**0xC1043 ( 790595) dkERR_ABORT_DKT_SAVEPOINT_ALREADY_EXIST Same savepoint name already exists**

**Cause:** The savepoint name already exists.

**Action:** Use a different name for the savepoint.

**0xC1044 ( 790596) dkERR_ABORT_DKS_DATA_SESSION_ALREADY_EXIST A linker data session already exists**

**Cause:** Tried to create a linker data session that already exists.

**Action:** Check the performance view for linker data session information.

**0xC1045 ( 790597) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_NOT_SUPPORT_GTX_LEVEL Not supported global transaction level**

**Cause:** The global transaction level was set to an unsupported value.

**Action:** Check the performance view or the altibase.properties file.

**0xC1046 ( 790598) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_NOT_SUPPORT_AUTOCOMMIT_MODE Not supported autocommit mode**

**Cause:** The autocommit mode was set to an unsupported value.

**Action:** Check the performance view or the altibase.properties file.

**0xC1047 ( 790599) dkERR_ABORT_DKT_REMOTE_STMT_TYPE Invalid remote statement type**

**Cause:** An invalid remote statement type is being used.

**Action:** Verify that the correct remote statement type is being used, or refer to the Database Link User’s Manual.

**0xC1048 ( 790600) dkERR_ABORT_DKD_REMOTE_TABLE_COLUMN_IS_NO_NULL Received null value from non null column of remote table**

**Cause:** The specified column in the remote table has a NOT NULL constraint, but a NULL value was received.

**Action:** Check whether changes have been made to the remote table's schema.

**0xC1049 ( 790601) dkERR_ABORT_DKA_PREPARE_LINKER_SHUTDOWN_FAILED Failed to prepare AltiLinker process shutdown, AltiLinker maybe busy now**

**Cause:** The AltiLinker process is currently too busy to shut down.

**Action:** Check the the AltiLinker status using performance views, retry this command after the AltiLinker process is finished, or use the 'FORCE' option.

**0xC104A ( 790602) dkERR_ABORT_DKT_REMOTE_NODE_SESSION_COUNT_EXCESS Cannot create remote node session any more**

**Cause:** Too many remote node sessions exist.

**Action:** Increase the 'ALTILINKER_REMOTE_NODE_SESSION_COUNT' property or check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0xC104B ( 790603) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_INVALID_USER Failed to drop a database link by invalid user**

**Cause:** A user who is not the owner of a database link tried to drop it.

**Action:** Check the ownership of the database link.

**0xC104C ( 790604) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_START_ALTILINKER_PROCESS Unable to fork AltiLinker process**

**Cause:** Another process is using same port number or wrong property file etc.

**Action:** Verify that the correct port number or property file path is being used.

**0xC104D ( 790605) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_CREATE_CTRL_SESSION_FAILED Failed to create linker control session**

**Cause:** Another process is using same port number or wrong property file etc.

**Action:** Verify that the correct port number or property file path is being used.

**0xC104E ( 790606) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_DBLINK_PROPERTIES_LOAD_FAILED Failed to load dblink.conf**

**Cause:** The dblink property file specified is incorrect or does not exist.

**Action:** Check the formatting and contents of the dblink property file and restart the AltiLinker process.

**0xC104F ( 790607) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_INVALID_TRANSACTION Invalid remote transaction**

**Cause:** Couldn't find the global transaction or remote transaction

**Action:** Check the right statement id or transaction id.

**0xC1050 ( 790608) dkERR_ABORT_DKT_SAVEPOINT_NOT_EXIST Savepoint not exist**

**Cause:** The savepoint does not exist or no savepoint name entered.

**Action:** Verify that the savepoint name is correct.

**0xC1051 ( 790609) dkERR_ABORT_DKP_INVALID_SESSION_ID Invalid session id**

**Cause:** An invalid session ID was passed.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0xC1052 ( 790610) dkERR_ABORT_DKA_DO_LINKER_SHUTDOWN_FAILED [Network] Failed to shutdown AltiLinker process**

**Cause:** Network failure

**Action:** Verify that the AltiLinker process running. If it is, check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0xC1053 ( 790611) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_INVALID_REMOTE_STMT_TYPE Invalid remote statement type**

**Cause:** Tried to execute invalid remote statement type

**Action:** Check the remote statement type or string.

**0xC1054 ( 790612) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_NEXT_ROW_FAILED Failed to get next row**

**Cause:** The remote statement is already freed or the wrong statement ID was used

**Action:** Verify the remote statement ID and that the remote statement is active.

**0xC1055 ( 790613) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_INVALID_COLUMN_INDEX Invalid column index**

**Cause:** The wrong column index number was used.

**Action:** Check the 'REMOTE_GET_COLUMN_VALUE' function in the procedure.

**0xC1056 ( 790614) dkERR_ABORT_DKI_WRONG_LINK_NAME Invalid database link name**

**Cause:** The specified database link name is invalid.

**Action:** Check the database link name.

**0xC1057 ( 790615) dkERR_ABORT_ALTILINKER_DISCONNECTED [FAILURE] Altilinker process disconnected**

**Cause:** The AltiLinker process was killed or disconnected.

**Action:** Verify that the AltiLinker process is active and that it is currently connected.

**0xC1058 ( 790616) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_SET_SAVEPOINT Failed to set a savepoint to remote server**

**Cause:** The remote node session is running in autocommit mode, or the remote server does not support changes to the autocommit mode.

**Action:** Verify that the autocommit mode of the remote node session is set to 'OFF'.

**0xC1059 ( 790617) dkERR_ABORT_DKI_STATEMENT_IS_NULL There is no internal statement information.**

**Cause:** Internal statement is missing.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0xC105A ( 790618) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_LINKER_DUMP_ERROR Failed to dump altilinker information.**

**Cause:** The AltiLinker process is running abnormally.

**Action:** Verify the AltiLinker process status and the "altibase_lk.log" file.

**0xC105B ( 790619) dkERR_ABORT_DKD_INVALID_BUFFER_SIZE The buffer size is not large enough to fetch the remote query results.**

**Cause:** The remote server record size is greater than the allocated dblink buffer size.

**Action:** Check the DBLINK_DATA_BUFFER_BLOCK_SIZE, DBLINK_DATA_BUFFER_BLOCK_COUNT, DBLINK_DATA_BUFFER_ALLOC_RATIO or DBLINK_REMOTE_TABLE_BUFFER_SIZE property.

**0xC105C ( 790620) dkERR_ABORT_DKD_INTERNAL_BUFFER_FULL Insufficient memory for the Database Link.**

**Cause:** Internal buffer for database link is full.

**Action:** Please check whether the query result is too large.

**0xC105D ( 790621) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_DBLINK_ALTILINKER_STATUS DBLINK_ALTILINKER_STATUS is only available in the DAEMON process.**

**Cause:** DBLINK_ALTILINKER_STATUS is visible at DAEMON process.

**Action:** Please query with the SYSDBA privilege.

**0xC105E ( 790622) dkERR_ABORT_DKN_GET_ADDR_INFO_ERROR An error occurred while receiving address information over the network.**

**Cause:** There is error while getting address info.

**Action:** Please check network status.

**0xC105F ( 790623) dkERR_ABORT_DKN_OPEN_SOCKET_ERROR A network error occurred.**

**Cause:** An error occurred while opening the socket.

**Action:** Please check network status.

**0xC1060 ( 790624) dkERR_ABORT_DKN_SELECT_SOCKET_ERROR A network error occurred.**

**Cause:** An error occurred while selecting the socket.

**Action:** Please check network status.

**0xC1061 ( 790625) dkERR_ABORT_DKN_NOT_ENOUGH_DATA_IN_WRITE_BUFFER An error occurred while sending data over the network.**

**Cause:** The data does not adhere to ADLP.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0xC1062 ( 790626) dkERR_ABORT_DKN_NOT_ENOUGH_DATA_IN_READ_BUFFER An error occurred while receiving data over the network.**

**Cause:** The data does not adhere to ADLP.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0xC1063 ( 790627) dkERR_ABORT_DKN_SEND_SOCKET_ERROR An error occurred while sending data over the network.**

**Cause:** An error occurred while sending data to the socket.

**Action:** Please check network status.

**0xC1064 ( 790628) dkERR_ABORT_DKN_RECV_SOCKET_ERROR An error occurred while receiving data over the network.**

**Cause:** An error occurred while receiving data from the socket.

**Action:** Please check network status.

**0xC1065 ( 790629) dkERR_ABORT_DKN_WRONG_HEADER_SIGN The ADLP protocol header is wrong.**

**Cause:** The communication protocol header is invalid.

**Action:** Please check the network or product version.

**0xC1066 ( 790630) dkERR_ABORT_DKT_INVALID_COLUMN_INDEX Invalid column index**

**Cause:** The wrong column index number was used.

**Action:** Check the 'REMOTE_GET_RESULT_BATCH' function in the procedure.

**0xC1067 ( 790631) dkERR_ABORT_DKT_INVALID_REMOTE_STMT_TYPE Invalid remote statement type**

**Cause:** Tried to execute invalid remote statement type

**Action:** Check the remote statement type or string.

**0xC1068 ( 790632) dkERR_ABORT_XA_APPLY_FAIL Fail notifier application. Result type = <0%u>, Global tx id = <1%lu>.**

**Cause:** There's network error or remote server failure.

**Action:** Please check network and remote server's status.

**0xC1069 ( 790633) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_CAN_NOT_CHANGE_GTX_LEVEL It can not change transaction level while global transaction is running.**

**Cause:** There's running global transaction.

**Action:** Please try again after finish global transaction.

**0xC106A ( 790634) dkERR_ABORT_DK_INTERNAL_ERROR Internal error occurs. (<0%s>).**

**Cause:** internal error.

**Action:** Please send a bug report to the vendor.

**0xC106B ( 790635) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_CANNOT_SET_SAVEPOINT It cannot set a savepoint to remote server in global transaction level 2.**

**Cause:** Global transaction level is 2.

**Action:** Please check global transaction level.

**0xC106C ( 790636) dkERR_ABORT_DKA_JAVA_EXEC_ERR Java binary which can execute the Altilinker process cannot be found [ <0%s>: <1%s> ].**

**Cause:** Either java has not been installed or JAVA_HOME has been incorrectly configured, otherwise, the system privilege does not exist.

**Action:** 

- The Java binary with the system privilege is required to execute the process.
- To do that, install JRE on a machine where AltiLinker would be operating, and then configure the installation path of JRE in JAVA_HOME environment variables or verify the system privilege if it has already been installed.

**0xC106D ( 790637) dkERR_ABORT_DKA_JAVA_HOME_ERR altilinker cannot be executed since the environment variables of JAVA_HOME has not been configured yet.**

**Cause:** The Java_HOME environment variables are not configured.

**Action:** Accurately configure the installation path in which JRE is installed in the JAVA_HOME environment variables.

**0xC106E ( 790638) dkERR_ABORT_DKT_ALTILINKER_XAEXCEPTION XAException occurred.**

**Cause:** XAException occured from Altilinker process.

**Action:** Check XAException message in altibase_lk file and take appropriate action.

**0xC106F ( 790639) dkERR_ABORT_DKM_NOT_EXECUTE_DML Failed to execute a DML because the global transaction has been terminated.**

**Cause:** After failed to commit in global transaction level 2, do not execute a DML statement to a remote server.

**Action:** Execute rollback and try again.

### **RETRY**

**0xC3035 ( 798773) dkERR_REBUILD_META_IS_DIFFERENT Remote table's meta has changed**

**Cause:** The AltiLinker process is not running.

**Action:** Check if an AltiLinker process is running.



