# 2.SM Error Code

### FATAL

**0x10002 ( 65538) smERR_FATAL_FileDelete Unable to delete <0%s> file**

**Cause:** The system failed to unlink the file.

**Action:** Terminate unnecessary processes.

**0x10006 ( 65542) smERR_FATAL_MunmapFail Failed to invoke the unmap() system function**

**Cause:** Insufficient system resources.

**Action:** Verify that there are enough system resources. Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase's Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x1000A ( 65546) smERR_FATAL_SysShmDt Failed to invoke the shmdt() system function**

**Cause:** The system failed to detach a shared memory region from a process.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x1000B ( 65547) smERR_FATAL_SysShmCtl Failed to invoke the shmctl() system function**

**Cause:** The system failed to remove shared memory.

**Action:** Change kernel parameters related to shared memory.

**0x1000C ( 65548) smERR_FATAL_Systhrjoin Failed to invoke the thr_join() system function**

**Cause:** The system failed to join threads.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x1000D ( 65549) smERR_FATAL_ThrMutexInit Unable to initialize a mutex.**

**Cause:** The system failed to initialize a mutex.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x1000E ( 65550) smERR_FATAL_ThrMutexDestroy Failed to invoke the mutex_destroy() system function**

**Cause:** The system failed to remove a mutex.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x1000F ( 65551) smERR_FATAL_ThrMutexLock Failed to invoke the mutex_lock() system function**

**Cause:** The system failed to lock a mutex.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x10010 ( 65552) smERR_FATAL_ThrMutexUnlock Failed to invoke the mutex_unlock() system function**

**Cause:** The system failed to unlock a mutex.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x10011 ( 65553) smERR_FATAL_ThrCondInit Failed to invoke the cond_init() system function**

**Cause:** The system failed to initialize a condition variable.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x10012 ( 65554) smERR_FATAL_ThrCondSignal Failed to invoke the cond_signal() system function**

**Cause:** The system failed to signal using a condition variable.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x10013 ( 65555) smERR_FATAL_ThrCondDestroy Failed to invoke the cond_destroy() system function**

**Cause:** The system failed to remove a condition variable.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x10014 ( 65556) smERR_FATAL_ThrCondWait Failed to invoke the cond_wait() system function**

**Cause:** Invalid condition value or invalid mutex.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x10019 ( 65561) smERR_FATAL_SysRead Failed to invoke the read() system function**

**Cause:** The system failed to read from the file.

**Action:** Check the file system.

**0x1001C ( 65564) smERR_FATAL_PageCorrupted A page is corrupt. ( Current Space ID : <0%d>, Current Page ID : <1%d> )**

**Cause:** The page was not completely written.

**Action:** Recover the tablespace that contains the corrupt page using backup and recovery utilities.

**0x10043 ( 65603) smERR_FATAL_WrongLogFileSize The size of the log file is wrong <0%s>.**

**Cause:** The file system has a problem.

**Action:** Check the file system.

**0x10048 ( 65608) smERR_FATAL_TooLongDBName Database filename too long ( A database file name must be shorter than <0%d> characters. )**

**Cause:** The database file name is too long.

**Action:** Use a database file name whose length does not exceed the limit.

**0x1004B ( 65611) smERR_FATAL_Shm_No_Permission No permission for the shared memory database**

**Cause:** A shared memory region has already been created with the same key, but with a different UID.

**Action:** Remove the shared memory region, or create a shared memory region with another key.

**0x10050 ( 65616) smERR_FATAL_smnNotSupportedIndex The index type is not supported.**

**Cause:** The index type is not supported.

**Action:** Refer to the list of supported index types.

**0x10052 ( 65618) smERR_FATAL_smiCursorNotOpened The cursor has not been opened yet.**

**Cause:** The cursor has not been opened yet.

**Action:** Open the cursor before using it.

**0x10054 ( 65620) smERR_FATAL_smiNoSelectedRow No rows were selected.**

**Cause:** No rows were selected.

**Action:** Select a row to update or delete.

**0x10057 ( 65623) smERR_FATAL_Uncommitted_Row_Found An uncommitted row was found.**

**Cause:** An uncommitted row was found.

**Action:** : Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x1005E ( 65630) smERR_FATAL_smiChildStatementExist One or more child statements exists.**

**Cause:** A cursor cannot be opened when a child statement exists.

**Action:** Do not open a cursor when a child statement exists.

**0x10063 ( 65635) smERR_FATAL_Overflow_DB_Size The database size is larger than specified in the property. (Specified Page Limit=<0%lu> : Allocated Page Size=<1%vu>)**

**Cause:** The database page count is too low.

**Action:** Increase the MEM_MAX_DB_SIZE property value.

**0x10068 ( 65640) smERR_FATAL_smnColumnNotFound Column not found**

**Cause:** Unable to find the column.

**Action:** Verify that the column you are looking for is valid.

**0x1006A ( 65642) smERR_FATAL_Shm_Link_Not_Exist A shared memory link has been disconnected. Remove it and try again.**

**Cause:** One or more shared memory links are not connected.

**Action:** Remove the shared memory regions and try again.

**0x1006B ( 65643) smERR_FATAL_Shm_Link_Invalid_State Invalid shared memory link found. Remove it and try again.(key = <0%d>)**

**Cause:** The system failed to link a shared memory region.

**Action:** Remove all of the shared memory regions, and try again.

**0x1006C ( 65644) smERR_FATAL_Shm_Link_Invalid_Version Invalid shared memory link version. Remove it and try again (key = <0%d>).**

**Cause:** One or more shared memory links has an invalid version.

**Action:** Remove all shared memory regions, and try again.

**0x1006E ( 65646) smERR_FATAL_smiCantExecuteDDL Unable to execute a DDL.**

**Cause:** Either another statement already exists or a cursor is already open.

**Action:** Verify that no other statement currently exists. Ensure that cursors are opened only once.

**0x1006F ( 65647) smERR_FATAL_smiCantOpenUpdateCursor Unable to open an update cursor.**

**Cause:** A read-only statement is not allowed to open an update cursor.

**Action:** Verify that an update cursor is not opened in a read-only statement.

**0x10070 ( 65648) smERR_FATAL_smiCantRestartUpdateCursor Unable to restart an update cursor.**

**Cause:** An update cursor cannot be restarted.

**Action:** Verify that no attempt to restart an update cursor is being made.

**0x1007A ( 65658) smERR_FATAL_smiCantEndStatement_too_many Unable to end the statement because it has child statements (The number of child statements is [<0%d>].)**

**Cause:** The statement has child statements.

**Action:** End all of the child statements.

**0x1007B ( 65659) smERR_FATAL_smiCantEndStatement_not_closed Unable to end the statement because it has open cursors.**

**Cause:** The statement has open cursors.

**Action:** Close all of the open cursors.

**0x1007F ( 65663) smERR_FATAL_ShmDB_Signature_Mismatch The DB signature in the shared memory region and the backup database file are different. (Backup DB : <0%s>, Shared DB : <1%s>)**

**Cause:** The shared memory region and the backup database file have different timestamps.

**Action:** Remove all of the shared memory regions and try again.

**0x10082 ( 65666) smERR_FATAL_DISABLED_ABORT_IN_LOGGING_LEVEL_0 ABORT is disabled.**

**Cause:** There is no log when LOGGING_LEVEL is set to 0.

**Action:** Check the value of the LOGGING_LEVEL and whether a transaction was aborted.

**0x10085 ( 65669) smERR_FATAL_CannotOpenDir The system failed to open the directory. ( Directory Name : <0%s> )**

**Cause:** The system failed to invoke the opendir() system function.

**Action:** Check the altibase_error.log file for details.

**0x10086 ( 65670) smERR_FATAL_CannotReadDir The system failed to read the directory.**

**Cause:** The system failed to invoke the readdir_r() system function.

**Action:** Check the altibase_boot.log file.

**0x1008A ( 65674) smERR_FATAL_MEMBASE_INVALID The database is inconsistent.**

**Cause:** The database is inconsistent.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x1008D ( 65677) smERR_FATAL_NotFoundDataFile The data file containing page [<0%d>] does not exist. ( Tablespace - ID : <1%d>, Type : <2%d> )**

**Cause:** The data file does not exist.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x1009C ( 65692) smERR_FATAL_INVALID_SHARED_MEMORY_DATABASE When the TRANSACTION_DURABILITY_LEVEL value is not 3, a shared memory database cannot be used. Set the SHM_DB_KEY property to 0.**

**Cause:** An attempt was made to use a shared memory database when the TRANSACTION_DURABILITY_LEVEL value was not 3.

**Action:** Please set the TRANSACTION_DURABILITY_LEVEL value to 3, or set the SHM_DB_KEY value to 0.

**0x100BA ( 65722) smERR_FATAL_MISMATCHED_FILENO_IN_LOGFILE Mismatched log file NO. The number of the log file(<0%s>) was originally #<1%d>, which is different from the one indicated by its name, #<2%d>.**

**Cause:** The log file has been renamed.

**Action:** Check if the logfile has been renamed, and rename it to its original name.

**0x100C3 ( 65731) smERR_FATAL_INVALID_MEM_MAX_DB_SIZE MEM_MAX_DB_SIZE(<0%d>) is less than EXPAND_CHUNK_PAGE_COUNT(<1%d>) * PAGE_SIZE.**

**Cause:** The MEM_MAX_DB_SIZE property value is invalid.

**Action:** Use a larger value for the MEM_MAX_DB_SIZE property.

**0x100D4 ( 65748) smERR_FATAL_TooLongTBSName Tablespace file name too long. (A tablespace file name must be shorter than <0%d> characters.)**

**Cause:** The tablespace file name is too long.

**Action:** Verify that the tablespace file name does not exceed the limit.

**0x100D5 ( 65749) smERR_FATAL_Shm_Link_Invalid_TBSID Invalid shared memory linkage tablespace ID. Remove it and try again (Tablespace ID on Shared Memory Chunk= <0%d>, Expected Tablespace ID on Shared Memory Chunk= <1%d>).**

**Cause:** The tablespace ID and the tablespace ID stored in the tablespace header in shared memory are different.

**Action:** Remove all shared memory regions and restart the server.

**0x100D6 ( 65750) smERR_FATAL_INVALID_SHARED_MEMORY_DATABASE_TRIAL_TO_DIFFERENT_RESTORE_MODE Invalid Shared Memory. An attempt was made to restore a tablespace in a different mode. Remove all shared memory regions and restart Altibase.**

**Cause:** A shared memory region is invalid.

**Action:** Remove all shared memory regions and try again.

**0x1010C ( 65804) smERR_FATAL_ALLOC_NEW_EXPAND_CHUNK Fatal error during alloc new expand chunk**

**Cause:** Insufficient available memory.

**Action:** Verify that there is enough available memory and disk space.

**0x1013A ( 65850) smERR_FATAL_ErrNeedMoreLog There are insufficient logfiles, or invalid logfiles at '<0%s>'.**

**Cause:** There are insufficient or invalid logfiles.

**Action:** Check the logfiles.

**0x10191 ( 65937) smERR_FATAL_PageFlushStopped Failed to flush pages. [err:%d]**

**Cause:** The secondary flusher has stopped due to an unexpected problem.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x10192 ( 65938) smERR_FATAL_PageReadStopped Failed to read a page.**

**Cause:** Cannot read page from the secondary buffer.

**Action:** Check the secondary buffer path.

**0x101AF ( 65967) smERR_FATAL_InvalidLSNOffset Invalid LSN Offset (File No=<0%u>, Offset=<1%u>)**

**Cause:** LSN Offset is invalid.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

### ABORT

**0x11000 ( 69632) smERR_ABORT_already_created The shared memory region is already in use.**

**Cause:** The shared memory region is already in use.

**Action:** Change the shared memory key value to a different value.

**0x11001 ( 69633) smERR_ABORT_NoMore_SHM_Page Insufficient memory for database**

**Cause:** The system failed to increase the amount of memory because the database was created in a shared memory region.

**Action:** Shut down the database and verify that the system has sufficient memory using shmutil.

**0x11003 ( 69635) smERR_ABORT_FileDelete Unable to delete <0%s> file**

**Cause:** The system failed to unlink the file.

**Action:** Terminate unnecessary processes.

**0x11008 ( 69640) smERR_ABORT_SysShmGet Failed to invoke the shmget() system function**

**Cause:** The system failed to allocate a new shared memory region due to the lack of resources on the system.

**Action:** Adjust parameters in order to obtain sufficient shared memory resources.

**0x11009 ( 69641) smERR_ABORT_SysShmAt Failed to invoke the shmat() system function**

**Cause:** The system failed to attach a shared memory region to a process.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x11016 ( 69654) smERR_ABORT_NotFoundSavepoint Savepoint not found**

**Cause:** There is no such savepoint in the transaction.

**Action:** Verify that the use of the savepoint is correct.

**0x11018 ( 69656) smERR_ABORT_BACKUP_DISK_INVALID The version of data file for backup is not compatible with the version of storage manager. Backup DB => [ Version ID = <0%s>, Bit = <1%d>, Endian = <2%s> LogSize = <3%lu> Transaction Table Size = <4%d> ] Server=>[ Version ID = <5%s>, Bit = <6%d>, Endian = <7%s> LogSize = <8%lu> Transaction Table Size = <9%d> ]**

**Cause:** Database data files are not backwards compatible.

**Action:** Import or export the database, or use a previous version of the storage manager that is compatible with the data file.

**0x1101F ( 69663) smERR_ABORT_InvalidAutoExtFileSize The MAXSIZE of the data file cannot be less than its current size. ( Request Max Size : <0%lu> pages, Current Size : <1%lu> pages )**

**Cause:** The MAXSIZE of the data file is less than the current size of the data file.

**Action:** Set the MAXSIZE of the data file appropriately.

**0x11020 ( 69664) smERR_ABORT_InitExceedMaxFileSize The INITSIZE of the data file exceeds the maximum file size. ( Request Init Size : <0%lu> pages, Maximum File Size : <1%lu> pages )**

**Cause:** The INITSIZE of the data file exceeds the maximum file size.

**Action:** Set the INITSIZE of the data file correctly.

**0x11022 ( 69666) smERR_ABORT_MaxExceedMaxFileSize The MAXSIZE of the data file exceeds the maximum file size. ( Request Max Size : <0%lu> pages, Maximum File Size : <1%lu> pages )**

**Cause:** The MAXSIZE of the data file exceeds the maximum file size.

**Action:** Set the MAXSIZE of the data file correctly.

**0x11023 ( 69667) smERR_ABORT_InvalidFilePathABS The data file path is not an absolute path.**

**Cause:** The data file path must be an absolute path.

**Action:** Check the environment variable ALTIBASE_HOME for this account.

**0x11024 ( 69668) smERR_ABORT_InvalidFilePathKeyWord The data file path contains special keywords or reserved system keywords.**

**Cause:** The data file path contains special keywords or reserved system keywords.

**Action:** Verify that the data file path does not contain special keywords or reserved system keywords.

**0x11025 ( 69669) smERR_ABORT_AlreadyExistFile The data file already exists ( File Name : <0%s> ).**

**Cause:** The data file already exists.

**Action:** Add the 'REUSE' clause to the CREATE statement, or remove the existing datafile.

**0x11027 ( 69671) smERR_ABORT_NotExistFile The data file does not exist.**

**Cause:** The data file does not exist.

**Action:** Verify that the data file exists.

**0x11028 ( 69672) smERR_ABORT_NoReadPermFile The path[ <0%s> ] does not pass the test for read permission.**

**Cause:** The path does not pass the test for read permission.

**Action:** Grant read permission for the path.

**0x11029 ( 69673) smERR_ABORT_NoWritePermFile The path[ <0%s> ] does not pass the test for write permission.**

**Cause:** The path does not pass the test for write permission.

**Action:** Grant write permission for the path.

**0x1102A ( 69674) smERR_ABORT_NotFoundTableSpaceNodeByName Tablespace node not found ( Name : <0%s> )**

**Cause:** The tablespace was not found.

**Action:** Verify that the desired tablespace exists.

**0x1102B ( 69675) smERR_ABORT_NotFoundTableSpaceNode Tablespace node not found ( ID : <0%d> )**

**Cause:** The tablespace was not found.

**Action:** Verify that the desired tablespace exists.

**0x1102C ( 69676) smERR_ABORT_MustBeDataFileOnlineMode The data file node must be in online mode (FID:<0%d>).**

**Cause:** The data file node must be in online mode.

**Action:** Change the data file node to online mode and try again.

**0x11030 ( 69680) smERR_ABORT_InvalidExtendFileSize The data file cannot be increased in size because the requested size is bigger than the maximum size. ( Request Size : <0%lu> pages, Maximum File size : <1%lu> pages )**

**Cause:** The datafile cannot be resized to a value that exceeds its maximum size.

**Action:** Resize the datafile to a size that does not exceed its maximum limit.

**0x11031 ( 69681) smERR_ABORT_NotEnoughTableSpaceID Unable to create tablespace. (current greatest tablespace ID : <0%d>)**

**Cause:** The number of tablespaces has reached the maximum.

**Action:** Use an existing tablespace or rebuild the database.

**0x11032 ( 69682) smERR_ABORT_AlreadySetAutoExtendMode The attribute of AUTOEXTEND mode has already been set. (FID :<0%d>)**

**Cause:** The AUTOEXTEND mode has already been set.

**Action:** No action is necessary.

**0x11033 ( 69683) smERR_ABORT_forbiddenOpWhileBackup <0%s> cannot operate while a tablespace is in the process of being backed up.**

**Cause:** A tablespace is currently being backed up.

**Action:** Wait until the tablespace backup process finishes.

**0x11034 ( 69684) smERR_ABORT_NotFoundDataFileNode Data file node not found ( <0%s> )**

**Cause:** The data file node was not found.

**Action:** Verify that the data file exists.

**0x11035 ( 69685) smERR_ABORT_NotEnoughFreeSpace The tablespace does not have enough free space ( TBS Name :<0%s>, Type : <1%d>, Used Page Limit : <2%d> ).**

**Cause:** The tablespace does not have enough free space.

**Action:** Add a new data file.

**0x11036 ( 69686) smERR_ABORT_CannotRemoveDataFileNode The data file is in use.**

**Cause:** The data file is in use.

**Action:** No action is necessary.

**0x11037 ( 69687) smERR_ABORT_CannotDropTableSpace Unable to drop system-related tablespaces.**

**Cause:** SYSTEM, UNDO, and SYSTEM TEMP tablespaces cannot be dropped.

**Action:** Verify that the tablespace is not a system tablespace.

**0x11039 ( 69689) smERR_ABORT_InvalidLogAnchorFile The log anchor file does not exist or is not valid.**

**Cause:** The loganchor file does not exist or is invalid.

**Action:** Specify the loganchor file directory for the LOGANCHOR_DIR property.

**0x1103E ( 69694) smERR_ABORT_MediaRecoDataFile <0%s> is only allowed during the control phase.**

**Cause:** The user tried to execute ALTER DATABASE CREATE data file, or tried to rename a file, during the service phase.

**Action:** Shut down and start up in the control phase.

**0x11041 ( 69697) smERR_ABORT_Aborted A deadlock situation has been detected.**

**Cause:** A deadlock victim transaction has been stopped and terminated due to the deadlock resolution scheme.

**Action:** The transaction was rolled back. Re-execute the transaction.

**0x11044 ( 69700) smERR_ABORT_SequenceReachMaxValue Sequence upper bound exceeded**

**Cause:** Sequence upper bound exceeded.

**Action:** Reinitialize the sequence.

**0x11045 ( 69701) smERR_ABORT_SequenceReachMinValue Sequence lower bound exceeded**

**Cause:** Sequence lower bound exceeded.

**Action:** Reinitialize the sequence.

**0x11046 ( 69702) smERR_ABORT_SequenceNotInitialized The sequence has not been initialized yet.**

**Cause:** An attempt was made to use a sequence that has not been initialized yet.

**Action:** Reinitialize the sequence first.

**0x11047 ( 69703) smERR_ABORT_NotDir Not a directory**

**Cause:** The specified path is not a directory.

**Action:** Specify a valid directory name.

**0x11049 ( 69705) smERR_ABORT_TooManyPage Too many pages were allocated ( Maximum Number of Pages=<0%ld> ).**

**Cause:** The number of pages has exceeded the maximum limit.

**Action:** The system failed to increase the size of the database. Refer to the SQL manual.

**0x1104A ( 69706) smERR_ABORT_smiTraverseNotApplicable Unable to traverse**

**Cause:** Failed to next-traverse a cursor because the cursor was not used in the proper order.

**Action:** Traverse the cursor in the correct order.

**0x1104D ( 69709) smERR_ABORT_smiUpdateStatementExist An update statement already exists.**

**Cause:** An UPDATE statement already exists.

**Action:** Do not use the savepoint operation when an UPDATE statement exists on one of the parent statements.

**0x1104E ( 69710) smERR_ABORT_smiStatementExist One or more statements exist.**

**Cause:** One or more statements exist.

**Action:** A transaction operation can be used only when no statements exist.

**0x1104F ( 69711) smERR_ABORT_smiUpdateOverflow Too many update cursors on a transaction**

**Cause:** The number of update cursors on a transaction exceeds the limitation.

**Action:** Roll back the work of the transaction.

**0x11051 ( 69713) smERR_ABORT_smiCursorOpened The cursor has already been opened.**

**Cause:** The cursor has already been opened.

**Action:** Open another cursor, or do not open the same cursor twice.

**0x11053 ( 69715) smERR_ABORT_smiWriteNotApplicable The function is not allowed to be used in read-only mode.**

**Cause:** This function cannot be used in read-only mode.

**Action:** Verify that the function can be used in read-only mode.

**0x11058 ( 69720) smERR_ABORT_smnUniqueViolation The row already exists in a unique index.**

**Cause:** A duplicate key was inserted or updated.

**Action:** Do not insert or update a duplicate key, or drop the unique constraint.

**0x11059 ( 69721) smERR_ABORT_smnNotFoundByIndexName Index type name not found**

**Cause:** It is impossible to find the index type name

**Action:** Select an appropriate index.

**0x1105A ( 69722) smERR_ABORT_smcFixedPageSizeError The fixed record size exceeds the size of one page.**

**Cause:** A table could not be created because the record size exceeds the size of one page.

**Action:** Create a table for which the record size is less than the size of one page.

**0x1105B ( 69723) smERR_ABORT_smcVarColumnSizeError A variable column size exceeds the maximum size for a variable column.**

**Cause:** A variable column that is larger than a page cannot be created.

**Action:** Reduce the size of the variable column so that it is less than the size of one page.

**0x1105C ( 69724) smERR_ABORT_Too_Long_Var_Data A variable data size exceeds the maximum size of a variable item.**

**Cause:** A variable data size exceeds the maximum size of a variable item.

**Action:** Change the variable data's length so that it does not exceed 32KB.

**0x1105D ( 69725) smERR_ABORT_smiCantBeginUpdateStatement Unable to begin a new update statement.**

**Cause:** Either the statement is read-only, or more than one UPDATE child statement has been requested.

**Action:** Verify that the request to begin a new UPDATE statement is valid.

**0x1105F ( 69727) smERR_ABORT_smiUpdateSameTable No more than one update cursor can be used on a table.**

**Cause:** Only one update cursor can be used on a table.

**Action:** Do not use more than one update cursor on a table.

**0x11060 ( 69728) smERR_ABORT_Already_Locked A lock has already been acquired by another transaction.**

**Cause:** A lock has already been acquired by another transaction.

**Action:** This situation occurs when a user executes a DDL, and a locked item has already been modified by another transaction.

**0x11061 ( 69729) smERR_ABORT_Column_Mismatch Unable to alter the table because the information does not correspond to the definition of the column.**

**Cause:** Table information (e.g. a constraint) cannot be modified because it is not in the specified column.

**Action:** Try again with the correct column and modification information.

**0x11062 ( 69730) smERR_ABORT_Index_Not_Found The index was not found on the database.**

**Cause:** The index was not found in the database.

**Action:** Verify that the index is correct.

**0x11064 ( 69732) smERR_ABORT_Table_Not_Found The table was not found in the database.**

**Cause:** The specified table was not found in the database.

**Action:** Verify that the specified table exists in the database.

**0x11065 ( 69733) smERR_ABORT_Maximum_Index_Count The number of indices in the table exceeds the limit(<0%d>).**

**Cause:** The number of indices in the table exceeds the limit.

**Action:** Do not create more than the allowed number of indices for a table.

**0x11066 ( 69734) smERR_ABORT_Invalid_ID_Value Invalid column ID**

**Cause:** The column IDs in the column list do not increment sequentially.

**Action:** Verify that the column ID is correct and create the table again.

**0x11067 ( 69735) smERR_ABORT_Maximum_Column_count Too many columns in a table**

**Cause:** Too many columns were specified in the CREATE/ALTER TABLE statement.

**Action:** Reduce the number of columns to 1024 or less.

**0x11069 ( 69737) smERR_ABORT_INTERNAL_ARG Internal server error in the storage manager (<0%s>)**

**Cause:** Internal server error.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x1106D ( 69741) smERR_ABORT_No_More_Shm_Key Unable to find an available shared memory key.**

**Cause:** No more shared memory keys are available.

**Action:** Remove all of the shared memory regions and try again.

**0x11071 ( 69745) smERR_ABORT_smiNotRootStatement Statement must be the root of the statement.**

**Cause:** The statement is not the root of the statement.

**Action:** Abort the transaction.

**0x11072 ( 69746) smERR_ABORT_smiInvalidCursorOpen Invalid cursor open**

**Cause:** Invalid cursor open

**Action:** Abort the transaction.

**0x11074 ( 69748) smERR_ABORT_InvalidBackupFile [<0%s>] is an invalid backup file for the table.**

**Cause:** The table backup file is invalid.

**Action:** Check the database version or backup file.

**0x11075 ( 69749) smERR_ABORT_smcExceedLockTimeWait The transaction has exceeded the lock timeout specified by the user.**

**Cause:** The transaction failed to lock the object.

**Action:** Increase the transaction's lock timeout value or check whether the data has a transaction with a long-term lock.

**0x11076 ( 69750) smERR_ABORT_NoExistFile File not found (<0%s>)**

**Cause:** The db file or log file does not exist.

**Action:** Verify that the path and filename are correct.

**0x11077 ( 69751) smERR_ABORT_NoExistPath Directory path not found (<0%s>).**

**Cause:** The directory path does not exist.

**Action:** Create the directory path or specify a valid directory.

**0x11079 ( 69753) smERR_ABORT_BackupWrite Disk full.**

**Cause:** The disk is full.

**Action:** Provide additional disk space.

**0x1107C ( 69756) smERR_ABORT_droped_Sequence The sequence has already been dropped.**

**Cause:** The sequence has already been dropped.

**Action:** Check whether the sequence exists.

**0x11084 ( 69764) smERR_ABORT_DISABLED_INDEX The Index is disabled.**

**Cause:** The Index with the table is disabled.

**Action:** Enable the index associated with the table.

**0x11087 ( 69767) smERR_ABORT_ExceedMaxRows The record count has reached the maximum limit.**

**Cause:** The number of records has reached or exceeded the maximum limit.

**Action:** Increase the values of MAXROWS for the table.

**0x11088 ( 69768) smERR_ABORT_INVALID_ROW_SCN Invalid row SCN**

**Cause:** Invalid row SCN

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x11089 ( 69769) smERR_ABORT_INVALID_COLUMN_SIZE Invalid column size**

**Cause:** The size of the column is invalid.

**Action:** Check the altibase_error.log file for details.

**0x1108C ( 69772) smERR_ABORT_Invalid_MaxRows Invalid MAXROWS value**

**Cause:** The values of MAXROWS is less than the number of records.

**Action:** Increase the values of MAXROWS.

**0x1108E ( 69774) smERR_ABORT_NotFoundDataFileNodeByID Data file node not found (ID : <0%d>)**

**Cause:** The data file node does not exist.

**Action:** Check the data file.

**0x1108F ( 69775) smERR_ABORT_CanStartARCH Archive thread cannot be started in NO ARCHIVE mode**

**Cause:** The user tried to start an archive thread in NO ARCHIVE mode.

**Action:** Shut down, start up to the control phase and then execute the ALTER DATABASE ARCHIVELOG statement.

**0x11090 ( 69776) smERR_ABORT_BackupDatafile The system failed to back up <0%s> <1%s> file.**

**Cause:** An error occurred while copying a memory region or a data file of a disk tablespace.

**Action:** Check the disk.

**0x11091 ( 69777) smERR_ABORT_DontNeedBackupTempTBS TEMP tablespace backup not required.**

**Cause:** The user tried to back up the TEMP tablespace.

**Action:** Do not back up the TEMP tablespace. It is unnecessary because the TEMP tablespace is initialized whenever the server starts.

**0x11093 ( 69779) smERR_ABORT_WrongStartupPhase Wrong startup phase. proceed to the correct startup phase.**

**Cause:** Wrong startup phase. Proceed to the correct startup phase.

**Action:** Proceed to the correct startup phase.

**0x11094 ( 69780) smERR_ABORT_ErrArchiveLogMode Execution impossible in NO ARCHIVE mode.**

**Cause:** Restart recovery cannot be performed in noarchivelog mode.

**Action:** To execute restart recovery, switch to archivelog mode.

**0x11095 ( 69781) smERR_ABORT_NeedMediaRecovery Start up in the CONTROL phase and then execute a complete media recovery.**

**Cause:** The data file does not exist or is not valid.

**Action:** Run a complete media recovery in the CONTROL phase.

**0x11098 ( 69784) smERR_ABORT_BackupLogMode <0%s> cannot be executed in NOARCHIVELOG mode.**

**Cause:** Restart recovery cannot be performed in noarchivelog mode.

**Action:** To execute restart recovery, switch to archivelog mode.

**0x11099 ( 69785) smERR_ABORT_UseFileInOtherTBS The file name [<0%s>] is in use by another tablespace.**

**Cause:** The file name is in use by another tablespace.

**Action:** Select another name for the destination file.

**0x1109A ( 69786) smERR_ABORT_SelfCopy Unable to copy the file because the source and destination are the same.**

**Cause:** The source and the destination path and filename are the same.

**Action:** Choose another destination path.

**0x1109B ( 69787) smERR_ABORT_NotSupport <0%s> is not supported yet.**

**Cause:** An attempt was made to execute an unsupported command.

**Action:** No action is necessary.

**0x110A1 ( 69793) smERR_ABORT_InvalidFileHdr Invalid data file header {SID:<0%d> - FID:<1%d>}**

**Cause:** Invalid data file header

**Action:** Copy a valid data file to [MEM_DB_DIR].

**0x110A2 ( 69794) smERR_ABORT_NeedResetLogs Incomplete media recovery. Resetlogs required.**

**Cause:** The media recovery attempt was incomplete because the resetlogs are needed.

**Action:** Start up in the meta phase using the RESETLOGS option.

**0x110A4 ( 69796) smERR_ABORT_BACKUP_GOING Backup in progress. Wait until the current backup is completed.**

**Cause:** It is impossible to switch logfiles while a backup is in progress.

**Action:** Wait until the current backup process is completed.

**0x110A5 ( 69797) smERR_ABORT_NotBeginBackup Tablespace : <0%d> BACKUP is not in progress.**

**Cause:** The tablespace backup has not yet begun.

**Action:** Execute the following statement first: ALTER TABLESPACE tablespacename BEGIN BACKUP.

**0x110A6 ( 69798) smERR_ABORT_NoActiveBeginBackup The backup process is not currently underway.**

**Cause:** The backup process is not currently underway.

**Action:** Execute the following statement first: ALTER TABLESPACE tablespacename BEGIN BACKUP.

**0x110A8 ( 69800) smERR_ABORT_NoExecutePermFile No execution permission for the path [ <0%s> ].**

**Cause:** File execution is not permitted for this path.

**Action:** Add file execution permission for this path.

**0x110A9 ( 69801) smERR_ABORT_AlreadyBeginBackup The tablespace <0%d> backup is in the BEGIN state.**

**Cause:** The tablespace backup has already begun.

**Action:** Alter the previously completed backup of the tablespace.

**0x110AA ( 69802) smERR_ABORT_AlreadyExistTableSpaceName Duplicate tablespace names [ <0%s> ].**

**Cause:** Duplicate tablespace names.

**Action:** Check the tablespace names.

**0x110AC ( 69804) smERR_ABORT_TableLockUse X or S table lock is not allowed while the TABLE_LOCK_ENABLE property is 0.**

**Cause:** The user tried to execute a DDL command when the TABLE_LOCK_ENABLE property was 0.

**Action:** Change the TABLE_LOCK_ENABLE value to 1.

**0x110AD ( 69805) smERR_ABORT_ActiveTransExits The alter system TABLE_LOCK_ENABLE can't be executed when an active transaction exists.**

**Cause:** A transaction is still active.

**Action:** End all active transactions and try again.

**0x110AF ( 69807) smERR_ABORT_OSFileSizeLimit_ERROR The maximum file size of the OS is less than the database file size that was specified in the CREATE DATABASE statement ( <0%lu> MB ).**

**Cause:** The maximum file size of the OS is less than that specified in the property.

**Action:** Increase the maximum file size of the OS.

**0x110B0 ( 69808) smERR_ABORT_GETLIMIT_ERROR Failed to invoke the getrlimit() system function**

**Cause:** The system failed to map the log file.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x110B1 ( 69809) smERR_ABORT_CantAllocTrans Unable to allocate a nested transaction object**

**Cause:** There is no free transaction object available.

**Action:** Wait until there is room for a free transaction object.

**0x110B2 ( 69810) smERR_ABORT_InvalidDB Database information is invalid.**

**Cause:** Database information is invalid.

**Action:** Check the error number from altibase_sm.log and contact Altibase's Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x110B3 ( 69811) smERR_ABORT_DIFFERENT_DB_FREE_PAGE_LIST_COUNT Different Page List Count. The value of the PAGE_LIST_GROUP_COUNT property is different from the one used when createdb was executed. ( current PAGE_LIST_GROUP_COUNT:<0%d>, createdb's PAGE_LIST_GROUP_COUNT <1%d> )**

**Cause:** The value of the PAGE_LIST_GROUP_COUNT property is different from the one used when createdb was executed.

**Action:** Set the PAGE_LIST_GROUP_COUNT value to exactly the same value specified when the database was created.

**0x110B4 ( 69812) smERR_ABORT_DIFFERENT_DB_EXPAND_CHUNK_PAGE_COUNT Different Expand Chunk Page Count. The value of the EXPAND_CHUNK_PAGE_COUNT property is different from the one used when createdb was executed. ( current EXPAND_CHUNK_PAGE_COUNT:<0%d>, createdb EXPAND_CHUNK_PAGE_COUNT <1%d> )**

**Cause:** The value of the EXPAND_CHUNK_PAGE_COUNT property is different from the one used when createdb was executed.

**Action:** Set the EXPAND_CHUNK_PAGE_COUNT to exactly the same value specified when the database was created.

**0x110B5 ( 69813) smERR_ABORT_TOO_MANY_PER_LIST_PAGE_COUNT_ERROR Too many pages in per list page count. ( Change property values to meet the condition EXPAND_CHUNK_PAGE_COUNT(<0%lu>) is greater than or equal to 2 * PER_LIST_DIST_PAGE_COUNT(<1%lu>) * PAGE_LIST_GROUP_COUNT(<2%lu>). )**

**Cause:** An expand chunk must have enough pages to be distributed to all database free page list at least twice. The user has specified property values that does not satisfy this condition, EXPAND_CHUNK_PAGE_COUNT <= 2 * PER_LIST_DIST_PAGE_COUNT * PAGE_LIST_GROUP_COUNT.

**Action:** Change EXPAND_CHUNK_PAGE_COUNT or PER_LIST_DIST_PAGE_COUNT to meet the condition EXPAND_CHUNK_PAGE_COUNT <= 2 * PER_LIST_DIST_PAGE_COUNT * PAGE_LIST_GROUP_COUNT.

**0x110B7 ( 69815) smERR_ABORT_InvalidUseResetLog There is no need to use resetlog.**

**Cause:** There is no need to use resetlog.

**Action:** Do not use resetlog when not necessary.

**0x110BC ( 69820) smERR_ABORT_WaitLogFileOpen Unable to open log file<%s>.**

**Cause:** The system failed to open the log file.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x110C1 ( 69825) smERR_ABORT_NotFoundDataFile The data file containing page [<0%d>] does not exist. ( Tablespace - ID : <1%d>, Type : <2%d> )**

**Cause:** The data file does not exist.

**Action:** Verify that the data file exists.

**0x110C2 (  69826) smERR_ABORT_ART Error generated by Automatic Recovery Test(ART)**

**Cause:** This error was generated by Automatic Recovery Test(ART).

**Action:** You may safely ignore this error.

**0x110C4 ( 69828) smERR_ABORT_CannotSpanTransByLobLocator LobLocator cannot span the transaction <0%d>.**

**Cause:** The transaction pointed to by Loblocator has ended.

**Action:** No action is necessary.

**0x110C5 ( 69829) smERR_ABORT_LobCursorClosed LobCursor already closed <0%d> ,<1%d>.**

**Cause:** An attempt was made to use a lob cursor that was already closed.

**Action:** No action is necessary.

**0x110C6 ( 69830) smERR_ABORT_CanNotModifyLob Cannot modify a lob using a read-only LobCursor.**

**Cause:** An attempt was made to modify a lob using a read-only lob cursor.

**Action:** No action is necessary.

**0x110C7 ( 69831) smERR_ABORT_MissMatchedLobTransID While copying a lob, mismatched source lob <0%d> and destination lob <1%d> transaction ID were found.**

**Cause:** An attempt was made to modify a lob using a read-only lob cursor.

**Action:** No action is necessary.

**0x110C8 ( 69832) smERR_ABORT_overflowLobCursorID Lob cursor ID overflow**

**Cause:** Too many lob cursors have been opened.

**Action:** Close the lob cursor.

**0x110C9 ( 69833) smERR_ABORT_PrePareWriteProtocol Lob write preparation protocol error**

**Cause:** Before writing was completed, another attempt to write to the lob was made.

**Action:** No action is necessary.

**0x110CA ( 69834) smERR_ABORT_FinishWriteProtocol Lob write finish protocol error**

**Cause:** The lob could not be written to before writing was completed.

**Action:** No action is necessary.

**0x110CB ( 69835) smERR_ABORT_RangeError The lob operation range (<0%d> ~ <1%d>) is not in the target range (<2%d> ~ <3%d>)**

**Cause:** Lob write range error.

**Action:** No action is necessary.

**0x110CC ( 69836) smERR_ABORT_LobCursorTooOld The lob cursor is too old.**

**Cause:** Because another statement updated the same row, this lob cursor became too old.

**Action:** Reopen the lob cursor.

**0x110CD ( 69837) smERR_ABORT_InvalidLobStartOffset Lob operation start offset [<0%d>] > current lob length [<1%d>]**

**Cause:** While preparing for writing, the operation start offset was found to be greater than the current length of the lob.

**Action:** No action is necessary.

**0x110D0 ( 69840) smERR_ABORT_MaxLobErrorSize The lob size is bigger than the maximum lob size**

**Cause:** The lob size is bigger than the maximum lob size.

**Action:** Ensure that the lob size is correct.

**0x110D1 ( 69841) smERR_ABORT_INVALIDE_LOB_CURSOR_MODE If the table cursor is read-only, the lob cursor must also be read-only.**

**Cause:** The LOB cursor must be read-only if the table cursor is read-only.

**Action:** Verify that the LOB cursor is read-only.

**0x110D7 ( 69847) smERR_ABORT_INVALID_STARTUP_PHASE_NOT_CONTROL <0%s> is only allowed during the control phase.**

**Cause:** The user tried to execute a statement which may only be executed in the CONTROL phase.

**Action:** Shut down, start up to the CONTROL phase and try again.

**0x110D8 ( 69848) smERR_ABORT_CPATH_NOT_EXIST The checkpoint path '<0%s>' does not exist.**

**Cause:** The user tried to use a checkpoint path that does not exist.

**Action:** Verify that the checkpoint path exists.

**0x110D9 ( 69849) smERR_ABORT_CPATH_NO_READ_PERMISSION The checkpoint path '<0%s>' does not have READ permission.**

**Cause:** The user tried to use a checkpoint path that does not have READ permission.

**Action:** Verify that the checkpoint path has READ permission.

**0x110DA ( 69850) smERR_ABORT_CPATH_NO_WRITE_PERMISSION The checkpoint path '<0%s>' does not have WRITE permission.**

**Cause:** The user tried to use a checkpoint path that does not have WRITE permission.

**Action:** Verify that the checkpoint path has WRITE permission.

**0x110DB ( 69851) smERR_ABORT_CPATH_NO_EXEC_PERMISSION The checkpoint path '<0%s>' does not have EXECUTE permission.**

**Cause:** The user tried to use a checkpoint path that does not have EXECUTE permission.

**Action:** Verify that the checkpoint path has EXECUTE permission.

**0x110DC ( 69852) smERR_ABORT_CPATH_NOT_A_DIRECTORY The checkpoint path '<0%s>' is not a directory.**

**Cause:** The user tried to use a checkpoint path that is not a directory.

**Action:** Verify that the checkpoint path is a directory.

**0x110DD ( 69853) smERR_ABORT_CPATH_NODE_NOT_EXIST The checkpoint path node '<0%s>' does not exist.**

**Cause:** The user tried to rename or drop a checkpoint path that does not exist.

**Action:** Verify that the checkpoint path exists.

**0x110DE ( 69854) smERR_ABORT_UNABLE_TO_DROP_LAST_CPATH A tablespace needs at least one checkpoint path. Unable to drop the checkpoint path '<0%s>'.**

**Cause:** The user tried to drop the only checkpoint path in the tablespace.

**Action:** Rename the checkpoint path instead of dropping it.

**0x110DF ( 69855) smERR_ABORT_CPATH_ALREADY_EXISTS The checkpoint path node '<0%s>' already exists.**

**Cause:** The user tried to add a checkpoint path that already exists.

**Action:** Do not try to add a checkpoint path that already exists.

**0x110E0 ( 69856) smERR_ABORT_ALTER_TBS_AUTOEXTEND_ALREADY_SET The attribute of AUTOEXTEND mode has already been set.**

**Cause:** The AUTOEXTEND mode has already been set.

**Action:** No action is necessary.

**0x110E1 ( 69857) smERR_ABORT_ALTER_TBS_NEXTSIZE_NOT_ALIGNED_TO_CHUNK_SIZE The NEXT attribute must be a multiple of the expand chunk size ( <0%lu>K )**

**Cause:** The NEXT attribute must be a multiple of the expand chunk size. The expand chunk size is calculated by EXPAND_CHUNK_PAGE_COUNT * PAGE_SIZE

**Action:** Verify that the NEXT size is aligned to EXPAND_CHUNK_PAGE_COUNT * PAGE_SIZE.

**0x110E2 ( 69858) smERR_ABORT_ALTER_TBS_MAXSIZE_LESSTHAN_CURRENT_SIZE The MAXSIZE attribute must be greater than or equal to the current size of the tablespace ( <0%lu>K )**

**Cause:** The MAXSIZE attribute is less than the current size of the tablespace.

**Action:** Verify that the MAXSIZE attribute is greater than or equal to the current size of the tablespace.

**0x110E3 ( 69859) smERR_ABORT_ALTER_TBS_AT_DROPPED_TBS Unable to alter a dropped tablespace**

**Cause:** The tablespace was dropped.

**Action:** Verify that the tablespace exists.

**0x110E4 ( 69860) smERR_ABORT_ALTER_TBS_AT_OFFLINE_TBS Unable to alter an offline tablespace**

**Cause:** The tablespace is offline.

**Action:** Verify that the tablespace is online before attempting to alter it.

**0x110E5 ( 69861) smERR_ABORT_INVALID_CIMAGE_HEADER Invalid Checkpoint Image Header {SID:<0%d> - PPID:<1%d> - FID:<2%d>}**

**Cause:** Invalid Checkpoint Image header.

**Action:** Copy a valid Checkpoint Image to [MEM_DB_DIR].

**0x110E6 ( 69862) smERR_ABORT_DefaultDBFileSizeNotAlignedToChunkSize The value of the DEFAULT_MEM_DB_FILE_SIZE property must be a multiple of the expand chunk size ( EXPAND_CHUNK_PAGE_COUNT * PAGE_SIZE(32K) = <0%lu>K )**

**Cause:** The value of DEFAULT_MEM_DB_FILE_SIZE property is not a multiple of the expand chunk size.

**Action:** Verify that the value of DEFAULT_MEM_DB_FILE_SIZE property is a multiple of the expand chunk size.

**0x110E7 ( 69863) smERR_ABORT_CANNOT_ALTER_STATUS_OF_SYSTEM_TABLESPACE Unable to change the system tablespace status to OFFLINE or ONLINE.**

**Cause:** It is impossible to alter the status of a system tablespace whose type is SYSTEM, UNDO, or SYSTEM TEMP.

**Action:** Verify that the tablespace is not a system tablespace.

**0x110E8 ( 69864) smERR_ABORT_CANNOT_ALTER_AUTOEXTEND_DICTIONARY_TABLESPACE Unable to alter the AUTOEXTEND mode of the dictionary tablespace.**

**Cause:** It is impossible to alter the AUTOEXTEND mode of the dictionary tablespace.

**Action:** Verify that the tablespace is not the dictionary tablespace.

**0x110E9 ( 69865) smERR_ABORT_ALTER_TBS_ONOFF_ALLOWED_ONLY_AT_META_SERVICE_PHASE ALTER TABLESPACE ONLINE/OFFLINE execution is allowed only during the META/SERVICE phase.**

**Cause:** It is impossible to alter the status of a tablespace during the PROCESS or CONTROL phases.

**Action:** Attempt this action during the META or SERVICE startup phases.

**0x110EA ( 69866) smERR_ABORT_SplitSizeNotAlignedToChunkSize The split size of the memory checkpoint image file must be a multiple of the expand chunk size ( EXPAND_CHUNK_PAGE_COUNT * PAGE_SIZE(32K) = <0%lu>K )**

**Cause:** The split size of the memory checkpoint image file is not a multiple of the expand chunk size.

**Action:** Verify that the split size of the memory checkpoint image file is a multiple of the expand chunk size.

**0x110EB ( 69867) smERR_ABORT_INVALID_CIMAGE_FILESPEC_FORMAT Invalid Checkpoint Image Filespec Format '<0%s>'.**

**Cause:** Invalid checkpoint image filespec format.

**Action:** Check checkpoint image filespec format.

**0x110EC ( 69868) smERR_ABORT_INPUT_UNSTABLE_CIMAGE The checkpoint image '<0%s>' is not stable.**

**Cause:** The user tried to input a checkpoint image that is not stable.

**Action:** Check the loganchor file and input a stable checkpoint image.

**0x110ED ( 69869) smERR_ABORT_ERROR_MEDIA_RECOVERY_TYPE Execute incomplete media recovery in the CONTROL phase, or execute a restart recovery.**

**Cause:** Either media recovery is complete or unnecessary.

**Action:** Restart normally.

**0x110EE ( 69870) smERR_ABORT_TBSInitSizeNotAlignedToChunkSize The initial size of the tablespace must be a multiple of the expand chunk size ( EXPAND_CHUNK_PAGE_COUNT * PAGE_SIZE(32K) = <0%lu>K )**

**Cause:** The initial size of the tablespace is not a multiple of the expand chunk size.

**Action:** Verify that the initial size of the tablespace is a multiple of the expand chunk size.

**0x110EF ( 69871) smERR_ABORT_UNABLE_TO_EXTEND_CHUNK_WHEN_AUTO_EXTEND_OFF Unable to extend the tablespace(<0%s>) when AUTOEXTEND mode is OFF**

**Cause:** The user tried to extend the tablespace when the AUTOEXTEND mode of the tablespace was OFF.

**Action:** Use the ALTER TABLESPACE AUTOEXTEND ON statement to set AUTOEXTEND mode to ON.

**0x110F0 ( 69872) smERR_ABORT_UNABLE_TO_EXTEND_CHUNK_MORE_THAN_MEM_MAX_DB_SIZE Unable to extend the tablespace (<0%s>) because the database would be larger than MEM_MAX_DB_SIZE(<1%lu>K).**

**Cause:** The user tried to extend the tablespace, but the size of the database would be larger than MEM_MAX_DB_SIZE.

**Action:** Enlarge MEM_MAX_DB_SIZE or drop another tablespace.

**0x110F1 ( 69873) smERR_ABORT_UNABLE_TO_EXTEND_CHUNK_MORE_THAN_TBS_MAXSIZE Unable to extend the tablespace (<0%s>) because the current size of the tablespace (<1%lu>K) would be larger than MAXSIZE (<2%lu>K) of the tablespace.**

**Cause:** The user tried to extend the tablespace, but the size of the tablespace would exceed MAXSIZE for the tablespace.

**Action:** Use the ALTER TABLESPACE AUTOEXTEND ON MAXSIZE statement to change the MAXSIZE for the tablespace.

**0x110F3 ( 69875) smERR_ABORT_PAGE_RANGE_ERROR Invalid Page Range. Valid Page Range = 1 ~ <0%d>.**

**Cause:** The page range is invalid.

**Action:** Specify a valid page range.

**0x110F4 ( 69876) smERR_ABORT_TABLESPACE_IS_ALREADY_ONLINE The tablespace is already in ONLINE mode**

**Cause:** The user tried to execute “ALTER TABLESPACE ONLINE” on a tablespace that is already in ONLINE mode.

**Action:** Verify that the table space is not in ONLINE mode before attempting this action.

**0x110F5 ( 69877) smERR_ABORT_TABLESPACE_IS_ALREADY_OFFLINE The tablespace is already in OFFLINE mode**

**Cause:** The user tried to execute “ALTER TABLESPACE OFFLINE” on a tablespace that is already in OFFLINE mode.

**Action:** Verify that the table space is not in OFFLINE mode before attempting this action.

**0x110F6 ( 69878) smERR_ABORT_DUMP_EMPTY_OBJECT Empty dump object.**

**Cause:** You did not specify a dump object for the dump table.

**Action:** Verify that you have set a dump object for the dump table.

**0x110F8 ( 69880) smERR_ABORT_CannotDiscardTableSpace Unable to change the tablespace to discard mode.**

**Cause:** It is impossible to change the tablespace to discard mode because its type is SYSTEM, UNDO or SYSTEM_TEMP.

**Action:** Verify that the tablespace is not a system tablespace.

**0x110F9 ( 69881) smERR_ABORT_MEDIA_RECOVERY_IS_NOT_SUPPORT_SHARED_MEMORY Media Recovery is not supported by the shared memory version.**

**Cause:** ALTER DATABASE RECOVER DATABASE is not supported for shared memory versions.

**Action:** Verify that the SHM_DB_KEY property is set to zero.

**0x110FA ( 69882) smERR_ABORT_CannotAllocLogBufferMemory Cannot allocate memory for the volatile log buffer.**

**Cause:** Insufficient memory.

**Action:** Retry this statement in autocommit mode.

**0x110FB ( 69883) smERR_ABORT_UNABLE_TO_USE_OFFLINE_TBS Unable to use an offline tablespace. (NAME=<0%s>)**

**Cause:** The user tried to use an offline tablespace.

**Action:** Execute the ALTER TABLESPACE ONLINE statement and try again.

**0x110FC ( 69884) smERR_ABORT_UNABLE_TO_USE_DISCARDED_TBS Unable to use a discarded tablespace. (NAME=<0%s>)**

**Cause:** The user tried to use a discarded tablespace.

**Action:** Execute the DROP TABLESPACE statement and recreate the tablespace.

**0x110FD ( 69885) smERR_ABORT_TBS_ALREADY_DISCARDED The tablespace has already been discarded.**

**Cause:** The user tried to discard a tablespace that has already been discarded.

**Action:** Execute the DROP TABLESPACE statement and recreate the tablespace.

**0x110FE ( 69886) smERR_ABORT_AUTOEXT_ON_UNALLOWED_FOR_USED_UP_FILE The autoextend attribute of a data file that has been used up cannot be switched on.**

**Cause:** The user tried to turn on the autoextend attribute for a data file that has been used up.

**Action:** Try again with a current or unused data file.

**0x110FF ( 69887) smERR_ABORT_StmtMaxDepthLevel The statement depth has reached the maximum level.**

**Cause:** The depth of the statement is greater than 255.

**Action:** Investigate the reason for the statement depth.

**0x11100 ( 69888) smERR_ABORT_UNABLE_TO_EXTEND_CHUNK_MORE_THAN_VOLATILE_MAX_DB_SIZE Unable to extend the tablespace (<0%s>) because the database would be larger than VOLATILE_MAX_DB_SIZE (<1%lu>K).**

**Cause:** The user tried to extend the tablespace, but the size of the database would be larger than VOLATILE_MAX_DB_SIZE.

**Action:** Increase the VOLATILE_MAX_DB_SIZE value or drop another tablespace.

**0x11101 ( 69889) smERR_ABORT_UNABLE_TO_BACKUP_FOR_VOLATILE_TABLESPACE Unable to back up a volatile tablespace.**

**Cause:** The user tried to back up a volatile tablespace.

**Action:** It is not necessary to back up volatile tablespaces.

**0x11102 ( 69890) smERR_ABORT_UNABLE_TO_ALTER_ONLINE_CUZ_MEM_MAX_DB_SIZE Unable to change the tablespace status (NAME=<0%s>, SIZE=<1%lu>K) to ONLINE because the database would be larger than MEM_MAX_DB_SIZE (<2%lu>K). ( Current Database Size = <3%lu>K )**

**Cause:** The user tried to bring the tablespace online, but the size of the database would be larger than MEM_MAX_DB_SIZE.

**Action:** Increase the MEM_MAX_DB_SIZE value or bring another tablespace offline, and try again.

**0x11103 ( 69891) smERR_ABORT_UNABLE_TO_CREATE_CUZ_MEM_MAX_DB_SIZE Unable to create the tablespace (NAME=<0%s>, SIZE=<1%lu>K) because the database would be larger than MEM_MAX_DB_SIZE (<2%lu>K). ( Current Database Size = <3%lu>K )**

**Cause:** The user tried to create a tablespace, but the size of the database would be larger than MEM_MAX_DB_SIZE.

**Action:** Increase the MEM_MAX_DB_SIZE value or bring another tablespace offline.

**0x11104 ( 69892) smERR_ABORT_FileNameIsNullString The length of the filename is zero.**

**Cause:** The filename is an empty string.

**Action:** Enter a valid filename for the file to be created.

**0x11105 ( 69893) smERR_ABORT_InvalidExtendFileSizeOSLimit The data file cannot be extended because the requested size is bigger than the OS file limit size. ( Request Size : <0%lu> pages, OS File Limit Size : <1%lu> pages )**

**Cause:** The resize (extend) value is too big.

**Action:** Use a suitable value for the resize action.

**0x11107 ( 69895) smERR_ABORT_UNABLE_TO_CREATE_CUZ_VOL_MAX_DB_SIZE Unable to create the tablespace (NAME=<0%s>, SIZE=<1%lu>K) because the database would be larger than VOLATILE_MAX_DB_SIZE(<2%lu>K). ( Current Total Volatile Tablespace Size = <3%lu>K )**

**Cause:** The user tried to create the tablespace, but the total size of the volatile tablespace would be larger than VOLATILE_MAX_DB_SIZE.

**Action:** Increase the VOLATILE_MAX_DB_SIZE value or drop another volatile tablespace.

**0x11108 ( 69896) smERR_ABORT_LogFileSizeNotAlignedToDirectIOPageSize The size of the logfile is not aligned to DIRECT_IO_PAGE_SIZE.**

**Cause:** The size of the logfile is not an exact multiple of DIRECT_IO_PAGE_SIZE.

**Action:** Verify that the size of the logfile is an exact multiple of DIRECT_IO_PAGE_SIZE.

**0x11109 ( 69897) smERR_ABORT_MAX_AGER_COUNT_LT_MIN_AGER_COUNT MAX_LOGICAL_AGER_COUNT property is less than MIN_LOGICAL_AGER_COUNT property. ( MAX_LOGICAL_AGER_COUNT=<0%d>, MIN_LOGICAL_AGER_COUNT=<1%d> )**

**Cause:** The user has specified a maximum number of logical agers that is less than the minimum number of logical agers.

**Action:** Verify that the MAX_LOGICAL_AGER_COUNT value is greater than or equal to the MIN_LOGICAL_AGER_COUNT value.

**0x1110A ( 69898) smERR_ABORT_AGER_COUNT_OUT_OF_MAX_COUNT The LOGICAL_AGER_COUNT property value is greater than the MAX_LOGICAL_AGER_COUNT property value. ( LOGICAL_AGER_COUNT=<0%d>, MAX_LOGICAL_AGER_COUNT=<1%d> )**

**Cause:** The LOGICAL_AGER_COUNT property value is greater than the MAX_LOGICAL_AGER_COUNT property value.

**Action:** Verify the LOGICAL_AGER_COUNT property value is less than or equal to the MAX_LOGICAL_AGER_COUNT property value.

**0x1110B ( 69899) smERR_ABORT_AGER_COUNT_OUT_OF_MIN_COUNT The LOGICAL_AGER_COUNT property value is less than the MIN_LOGICAL_AGER_COUNT property value. ( LOGICAL_AGER_COUNT=<0%d>, MIN_LOGICAL_AGER_COUNT=<1%d> )**

**Cause:** The LOGICAL_AGER_COUNT property value is less than the MIN_LOGICAL_AGER_COUNT property value.

**Action:** Verify the LOGICAL_AGER_COUNT property value is greater than or equal to the MIN_LOGICAL_AGER_COUNT property value.

**0x1110D ( 69901) smERR_ABORT_NOT_NULL_VIOLATION Unable to add NOT NULL constraint to the specified column because it already contains null values**

**Cause:** The NOT NULL constraint cannot be added to the specified column because it already contains null values.

**Action:** Remove all null values from the column prior to adding the NOT NULL constraint.

**0x11110 ( 69904) smERR_ABORT_INCONSISTENT_INDEX The index is inconsistent**

**Cause:** The index is inconsistent.

**Action:** Check index consistency and rebuild the index.

**0x11112 ( 69906) smERR_ABORT_Not_Support_MMap The OS does not support mmap.**

**Cause:** The OS does not support mmap.

**Action:** Check LOG_BUFFER_TYPE.

**0x11114 ( 69908) smERR_ABORT_INVALID_DUMP_OBJECT Invalid dump object**

**Cause:** The object is not valid for a dump table.

**Action:** Verify that a valid dump object has been used for the dump table.

**0x11115 ( 69909) smERR_ABORT_TBS_ATTR_FLAG_ALREADY_SET The tablespace attribute has already been set to the given value.**

**Cause:** The LOG COMPRESS attribute already corresponds to the given value.

**Action:** No action is necessary.

**0x11116 ( 69910) smERR_ABORT_TABLE_ATTR_FLAG_ALREADY_SET The table attribute has already been set to the given value.**

**Cause:** The attribute is already the same as the given value.

**Action:** No action is necessary.

**0x11117 ( 69911) smERR_ABORT_UNABLE_TO_COMPRESS_VOLATILE_TBS_LOG Log compression is not supported for volatile tablespaces.**

**Cause:** The user tried to compress a volatile tablespace log.

**Action:** No action is necessary.

**0x11118 ( 69912) smERR_ABORT_TOO_MANY_UPDATE_LOG The update log size '<0%lu>' is bigger than TRX_UPDATE_MAX_LOGSIZE '<1%lu>'**

**Cause:** The update log size '<%lu>' is bigger than TRX_UPDATE_MAX_LOGSIZE '<%lu>'

**Action:** TRX_UPDATE_MAX_LOGSIZE is too small.

**0x1111A ( 69914) smERR_ABORT_Invalid_DataFile_Create_LSN The create LSN (<0%u>, <1%u>, <2%u>) of the data file (<3%s>) is bigger than the restart redo LSN (<4%u>, <5%u>, <6%u>).**

**Cause:** The data file is invalid.

**Action:** Verify that the data file was backed up correctly.

**0x1111F ( 69919) smERR_ABORT_PageCorrupted A page is corrupt. ( Current Space ID : <0%d>, Current Page ID : <1%d> )**

**Cause:** The page was not written completely.

**Action:** Recover the tablespace that contains the corrupt page with backup and recovery utilities.

**0x11120 ( 69920) smERR_ABORT_INCONSISTENT_TABLE The table is inconsistent.**

**Cause:** The table is inconsistent.

**Action:** Recreate the table.

**0x11121 ( 69921) smERR_ABORT_CANNOT_ADD_DataFile It is impossible to add any more data files.**

**Cause:** The number of files has reached the limit.

**Action:** Refrain from attempting this action.

**0x11122 ( 69922) smERR_ABORT_CANT_SHRINK_BELOW_HWM It is impossible to shrink this file. ( Request Size : <0%lu> pages, Used File Size : <1%lu> pages )**

**Cause:** An attempt was made to shrink the file below HWM.

**Action:** Refrain from attempting this action.

**0x11123 ( 69923) smERR_ABORT_NOT_ENOUGH_SPACE The tablespace does not have enough free space ( TBS Name :<0%s> ).**

**Cause:** The tablespace does not have enough free space.

**Action:** Add a new data file.

**0x11124 ( 69924) smERR_ABORT_FILE_IS_TOO_SMALL Not even one extent can be created. ( Request Init Size : <0%lu> pages, Minimum File Size : <1%lu> pages )**

**Cause:** The file is too small for even one extent.

**Action:** Retry with a greater size.

**0x11126 ( 69926) smERR_ABORT_SegmentExceedMaxExtents Max no. of extents reached for segment ( TBSID : <0%u>, SEGHDR_FID : <1%u>, SEGHDR_FPID : <2%u>, CurrExtCnt : <3%u>, MaxExtCnt : <4%u> ).**

**Cause:** The maximum number of extents has been reached for this segment.

**Action:** Increase the MAXEXTENTS value for this segment.

**0x11127 ( 69927) smERR_ABORT_NotExistSegment The segment does not exist or is not in a valid state.**

**Cause:** The segment does not exist or is not in a valid state.

**Action:** Verify that the segment object is valid.

**0x11128 ( 69928) smERR_ABORT_SHRINK_SIZE_IS_TOO_SMALL The requested size of the data file is less than the minimum file size. ( Request Size : <0%lu> pages, Minimum File Size : <1%lu> pages )**

**Cause:** The file is too small for even one extent.

**Action:** Increase the file size.

**0x11129 ( 69929) smERR_ABORT_TOO_MANY_DATA_FILE The Tablespace has too many data files.**

**Cause:** An attempt was made to create the Tablespace with too many data files.

**Action:** Reduce the number of data files in the Tablespace to 1024 or less.

**0x1112D ( 69933) smERR_ABORT_smiInvalidFlusherID The flusher ID [<0%d>] must be less than <1%d>.**

**Cause:** The flusher ID is invalid.

**Action:** Check the flusher count.

**0x1112E ( 69934) smERR_ABORT_sdbFlusherNotStarted The flusher [<0%d>] was not started.**

**Cause:** The flusher was not started.

**Action:** Check the flusher status.

**0x1112F ( 69935) smERR_ABORT_sdbFlusherRunning The flusher [<0%d>] is already running.**

**Cause:** The flusher cannot be started because it is already running.

**Action:** Check the flusher status.

**0x11130 ( 69936) smERR_ABORT_ILLEGAL_REQ_BUFFER_SIZE BUFFER_AREA_SIZE has to be larger than current BUFFER_AREA_SIZE.**

**Cause:** The current version of Altibase doesn't support decreasing the buffer area size.

**Action:** If you want to decrease the buffer area size, first shut down Altibase and set a suitable value for the property. Then start Altibase again.

**0x11132 ( 69938) smERR_ABORT_INVALID_BUFFER_EXPAND_SIZE |BUFFER_AREA_SIZE - current BUFFER_AREA_SIZE| must be larger than BUFFER_AREA_CHUNK_SIZE.**

**Cause:** |BUFFER_AREA_SIZE - current BUFFER_AREA_SIZE| is smaller than BUFFER_AREA_CHUNK_SIZE.

**Action:** Enter another value for BUFFER_AREA_SIZE.

**0x11134 ( 69940) smERR_ABORT_Not_Support_function Altibase doesn't support this function**

**Cause:** Altibase doesn't support this function.

**Action:** Check the manual.

**0x11135 ( 69941) smERR_ABORT_AlreadyExistLogFile The Log file already exists.**

**Cause:** The Log file already exists.

**Action:** Confirm that you have executed destroydb.

**0x11136 ( 69942) smERR_ABORT_AlreadyExistLogAnchorFile The LogAnchor file already exists.**

**Cause:** The LogAnchor file already exists.

**Action:** Confirm that you have executed destroydb.

**0x11137 ( 69943) smERR_ABORT_UseFileInTheTBS The file name [<0%s>] is in use by the tablespace [<1%s>].**

**Cause:** The file name is in use by a tablespace.

**Action:** Choose another destination file name.

**0x11138 ( 69944) smERR_ABORT_BUFFER_MANAGER_BUSY The buffer area size cannot be changed because of transactions.**

**Cause:** There are currently executing transactions.

**Action:** Try again when the system is not busy.

**0x11139 ( 69945) smERR_ABORT_CannotCreateSegInUndoTBS Cannot create segments in an undo tablespace.**

**Cause:** Cannot create a table or index in an undo tablespace.

**Action:** Use another tablespace.

**0x1113B ( 69947) smERR_ABORT_Datafile_Header_Read_Failure File header not read from database file '<0%s>'.**

**Cause:** The DBFile was not found, or the DBFileHdr value in the DBFile could not be read.

**Action:** Check the DBFile.

**0x1113C ( 69948) smERR_ABORT_Datafile_Header_Write_Failure File header of database file '<0%s>' not written.**

**Cause:** The DBFile was not found, or the DBFileHdr was not written in the DBFile.

**Action:** Check the DBFile.

**0x1113D ( 69949) smERR_ABORT_NotFoundDataFileByPath Data file not found '<0%s>'.**

**Cause:** Data file not found.

**Action:** Check the data file.

**0x1113E ( 69950) smERR_ABORT_EXTENT_SIZE_IS_TOO_SMALL An extent size for an auto segment space managed tablespace must have at least 5 blocks.**

**Cause:** The user tried to create a tablespace with an invalid (too small) extent size.

**Action:** Create a tablespace with a valid (greater than PAGESIZE * 5) extent size.

**0x11140 ( 69952) smERR_ABORT_LogSizeExceedLogFileSize The size of a log record exceeds the logfile size ( logfile size <0%d> bytes, log record size <1%d> bytes ).**

**Cause:** The size of a log record exceeds the logfile size.

**Action:** Change the property to a suitable value and recreate the database.

**0x11141 ( 69953) smERR_ABORT_Invalid_Mtx_LatchStack_Size The mini transaction's latchstack size is not 1.**

**Cause:** Internal mtx misuse.

**Action:** Send a bug report to the vendor.

**0x11145 ( 69957) smERR_ABORT_AllFlushersStopped You cannot run the DCL command because all flushers are stopped.**

**Cause:** All flushers are stopped.

**Action:** Start some flushers.

**0x11146 ( 69958) smERR_ABORT_DW_FILE_NOT_FOUND There is no double write file.**

**Cause:** The DOUBLE_WRITE_DIRECTORY property has been modified.

**Action:** Check your properties.

**0x11147 ( 69959) smERR_ABORT_INVALID_LOGFILE Invalid logfile ( File Name : <0%s> ).**

**Cause:** The log file is invalid.

**Action:** Check the logfile.

**0x11149 ( 69961) smERR_ABORT_WrongVerifyDiskIndexCount The number of _*SM_VERIFY_DISK_INDEX_NAME(<0%d>) is not _*SM_VERIFY_DISK_INDEX_COUNT(<1%d>).**

**Cause:** The number of _*SM_VERIFY_DISK_INDEX_NAME is different from _*SM_VERIFY_DISK_INDEX_COUNT.

**Action:** Check _*SM_VERIFY_DISK_INDEX_COUNT and the number of _*SM_VERIFY_DISK_INDEX_NAME.

**0x1114A ( 69962) smERR_ABORT_TX_ALLOC Failed to allocate a transaction.**

**Cause:** Allocating the transaction took too long.

**Action:** Check the transaction table status.

**0x1114C ( 69964) smERR_ABORT_DROP_CPATH_NOT_YET_MOVED_CIMG_IN_CPATH The checkpoint image '<0%s>' has not yet been moved from the checkpoint path '<1%s>'.**

**Cause:** An attempt was made to drop a checkpoint path that contains a checkpoint image.

**Action:** Move the checkpoint image to another checkpoint path.

**0x1114D ( 69965) smERR_ABORT_DML_AFTER_INSERT_APPEND This DML operation is not permitted.**

**Cause:** An attempt was made to execute DML operations during Direct-Path INSERT.

**Action:** Execute DML operations after Direct-Path INSERT is Terminated.

**0x1114E ( 69966) smERR_ABORT_NOT_FOUND_LOGFILE No log files could be found in the '<0%s>' directory.**

**Cause:** The specified directory did not contain any log files.

**Action:** Check the specified directory.

**0x1114F ( 69967) smERR_ABORT_EXIST_ACTIVE_TRANS_IN_RECOV Recovery failure. Active transactions exist.**

**Cause:** All transactions that were commenced during the startup phase must be completed before the recovery phase.

**Action:** Check for and end all active transactions during the control phase.

**0x11150 ( 69968) smERR_ABORT_InitSizeExceedMaxSize The INITSIZE of the data file exceeds the MAXSIZE of the data file.**

**Cause:** The INITSIZE of the data file exceeds the MAXSIZE of the data file.

**Action:** Check the INITSIZE and MAXSIZE of the data file.

**0x11151 ( 69969) smERR_ABORT_InitSizePropExceedMaxSizeProp The value of the <0%s> property exceeds the value of the <1%s> property.**

**Cause:** The value of the INITSIZE property exceeds the value of the MAXSIZE property.

**Action:** Check the properties pertaining to the size of the data file.

**0x11152 ( 69970) smERR_ABORT_MaxSizePropExceedOSLimit The value of the <0%s> property exceeds the OS file size limit. ( Max Size Property : <1%lu>, OS file size limit : <2%lu> )**

**Cause:** The MAXSIZE property of the data file exceeds the OS file size limit.

**Action:** Set the MAXSIZE of the data file appropriately.

**0x11153 ( 69971) smERR_ABORT_InitSizeExceedOSLimit The INITSIZE of the data file exceeds the OS file size limit. ( Request Init Size : <0%lu> pages, OS file size limit : <1%lu> pages )**

**Cause:** The MAXSIZE of the data file exceeds the OS file size limit.

**Action:** Set the MAXSIZE of the data file appropriately.

**0x11154 ( 69972) smERR_ABORT_MaxSizeExceedOSLimit The MAXSIZE of the data file exceeds the OS file size limit. ( Request Max Size : <0%lu> pages, OS file size limit : <1%lu> pages )**

**Cause:** The MAXSIZE of the data file exceeds the OS file size limit.

**Action:** Set the MAXSIZE of the data file appropriately.

**0x11155 ( 69973) smERR_ABORT_InvalidFileSizeOnLogAnchor The file size reported for the file <0%s> is invalid. ( Init Size : <1%lu> pages, Current Size : <2%lu> pages, Max Size : <3%lu> pages, Maximum File Size <4%lu> pages )**

**Cause:** Invalid information about the size of a data file is stored in a loganchor file.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x11156 ( 69974) smERR_ABORT_InvalidExtendFileSizeMaxSize The requested size of the data file exceeds the MAXSIZE for the data file. ( Requested Size : <0%lu> pages, Max Size : <1%lu> pages )**

**Cause:** The specified file size value is too big.

**Action:** Set the value for the file size appropriately.

**0x11157 ( 69975) smERR_ABORT_WRONG_ENTRY_ID __MANUAL_BINDING_TRANSACTION_SEGMENT_BY_ENTRY_ID '<0%d>' exceeds the total entry count '<1%d>'.**

**Cause:** The entry ID specified in __MANUAL_BINDING_TRANSACTION_SEGMENT_BY_ENTRY_ID is too high.

**Action:** Set the value of __MANUAL_BINDING_TRANSACTION_SEGMENT_BY_ENTRY_ID property to a value less than the total entry count.

**0x11158 ( 69976) smERR_ABORT_NOT_AVAILABLE_ENTRY __MANUAL_BINDING_TRANSACTION_SEGMENT_BY_ENTRY_ID '<0%d>' has already been bound in another transaction.**

**Cause:** The entry ID specified in __MANUAL_BINDING_TRANSACTION_SEGMENT_BY_ENTRY_ID has already been bound in another transaction.

**Action:** Retry after a moment, or set the __MANUAL_BINDING_TRANSACTION_SEGMENT_BY_ENTRY_ID property to another value and try again.

**0x11159 ( 69977) smERR_ABORT_DATA_PORT_INTERNAL_ERROR Internal import/export error.**

**Cause:** Unexpected internal error.

**Action:** Notify Altibase technical support staff.

**0x1115A ( 69978) smERR_ABORT_CORRUPTED_BLOCK A block is corrupt. ( BlockID <0%d> ).**

**Cause:** A block appears to be corrupt.

**Action:** Check the DataPort file.

**0x1115B ( 69979) smERR_ABORT_VERSION_NOT_SUPPORTED The DataPort file version is not supported. ( <0%d> > <1%d> ).**

**Cause:** The version of the DataPort file is too high.

**Action:** Check the version of the database and the DataPort file.

**0x1115C ( 69980) smERR_ABORT_CANT_OPEN_FILE Cannot find the file. ( '<0%s>' ).**

**Cause:** The DataPort file does not exist.

**Action:** Check the DataPort file name and try again.

**0x1115D ( 69981) smERR_ABORT_COLUMN_CHAINING_THRESHOLD_LAGER_THAN_BLOCK_SIZE The column-chaining threshold is greater than the maximum size(=BlockSize/2)( ColumnChainingThreshold:<0%d>, BlockSize:<1%d> ).**

**Cause:** The column-chaining threshold is greater than the maximum size(=BlockSize/2).

**Action:** Set the column-chaining threshold to a value less than (BlockSize/2).

**0x1115E ( 69982) smERR_ABORT_CORRUPTED_HEADER The DataPort file header is corrupt.**

**Cause:** The Dataport file header appears to be corrupt.

**Action:** Check the DataPort file.

**0x1115F ( 69983) smERR_ABORT_CheckpointPathIsNullString The length of the checkpoint path is zero.**

**Cause:** The value specified for the checkpoint path is a null string.

**Action:** Provide a valid checkpoint path to be created.

**0x11160 ( 69984) smERR_ABORT_InvalidCheckpointPathABS The checkpoint path is not an absolute path.**

**Cause:** The checkpoint path is not an absolute path.

**Action:** Check the ALTIBASE_HOME environment variable for this account.

**0x11161 ( 69985) smERR_ABORT_InvalidCheckpointPathKeyWord The checkpoint path contains special keywords or system reserved keywords.**

**Cause:** The checkpoint path contains special keywords or system reserved keywords.

**Action:** Set the checkpoint path appropriately.

**0x11162 ( 69986) smERR_ABORT_TooLongCheckpointPath The checkpoint path is too long <0%s> <1%s>.**

**Cause:** The checkpoint path is too long.

**Action:** Specify a checkpoint path that is within the allowable length for a checkpoint path.

**0x11163 ( 69987) smERR_ABORT_TooLongFilePath The total length of the file path and name is too long <0%s> <1%s>.**

**Cause:** The total length of the file path and name is too long.

**Action:** Specify a file path and/or filename such that the total length of the file path and name is within the allowable length.

**0x11164 ( 69988) smERR_ABORT_AlreadyExistDBFiles The data file(s) already exists.**

**Cause:** The data file(s) already exists.

**Action:** Ensure that you have executed destroydb and try again.

**0x11165 ( 69989) smERR_ABORT_INTERNAL The storage manager experienced an internal server error.**

**Cause:** Internal server error.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x11166 ( 69990) smERR_ABORT_TRANSACTION_TABLE_SIZE_IS_NOT_POWER_OF_TWO TRANSACTION_TABLE_SIZE ['<0%d>'] is not a power of two.**

**Cause:** The value of the TRANSACTION_TABLE_SIZE property is not a power of two(=2^n^).

**Action:** Check the altibase.properties file and set the value of TRANSACTION_TABLE_SIZE to a power of two (2^n^).

**0x11167 ( 69991) smERR_ABORT_DB_FILE_SIZE_EXCEEDS_LIMIT The size of the DB file(<0%s>) exceeds the size specified in the MEM_MAX_DB_SIZE property.**

**Cause:** The MEM_MAX_DB_SIZE property is set to a value that is less than the current size of the DB file.

**Action:** Check the altibase.properties file and increase the value of the MEM_MAX_DB_SIZE property

**0x11168 ( 69992) smERR_ABORT_LOG_FILE_MISSING Non-continuous log file numbers. ( <0%s> ).**

**Cause:** Either the server failed to remove an old log file, or a current log file has been lost for some unknown reason.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x11169 ( 69993) smERR_ABORT_FAILURE_DURABILITY_AT_STARTUP Restart recovery aborted to protect database durability.**

**Cause:** A log file has been lost. If restart recovery continues, DB durability and DB objects may be broken.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x1116A ( 69994) smERR_ABORT_FAILURE_DRDB_WAL_AT_STARTUP Restart recovery aborted due to Write-Ahead-Logging failure.**

**Cause:** The server cannot find a log file that is necessary for restoring a DRDB object. If

restart recovery continues, DB consistency may be broken.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x1116B ( 69995) smERR_ABORT_FAILURE_MRDB_WAL_AT_STARTUP Restart recovery aborted due to Write-Ahead-Logging failure.**

**Cause:** The server cannot find a log file that is necessary for restoring an MRDB object. If restart recovery continues, DB consistency may be broken.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x1116C ( 69996) smERR_ABORT_INCONSISTENT_DB Access blocked to prevent DB inconsistency from worsening.**

**Cause:** A SQL statement attempted to access a portion of the DB that is already inconsistent.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x1116D ( 69997) smERR_ABORT_INCONSISTENT_PAGE A page is inconsistent. ( Current Space ID : <0%d>, Current Page ID : <1%d> )**

**Cause:** The page is not consistent.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x1116E ( 69998) smERR_ABORT_ERR_INCONSISTENT_DB_AND_LOG_BUFFER_TYPE Could not perform emergency startup due to current LOG_BUFFER_TYPE setting.**

**Cause:** The current log buffer type setting (=0) forcefully records all logs, including emergency logs. However, emergency logs must not be recorded.

**Action:** Set the value of the LOG_BUFFER_TYPE property to 1.

**0x1116F ( 69999) smERR_ABORT_LOGFILE_TOO_BIG_WITH_DIRECT_IO The logfile is too big. ( <0%d> > <1%d> )**

**Cause:** The size of the logfile exceeds the DIRECT I/O limitation.

**Action:** Verify that the logfile is smaller than the DIRECT I/O limitation, or set the value of the LOG_IO_TYPE property to 0.

**0x11171 ( 70001) smERR_ABORT_InvalidChangeTrackingFile The change-tracking file is not valid. ( File Name :<0%s> )**

**Cause:** The file was corrupted by an abnormal shutdown or some other unexpected activity.

**Action:** Disable and re-enable the change-tracking manger.

**0x11172 ( 70002) smERR_ABORT_ChangeTrackingState Unexpected change-tracking manager state.**

**Cause:** The change-tracking manager is already enabled or disabled.

**Action:** Check the state of the change-tracking manager.

**0x11173 ( 70003) smERR_ABORT_ErrUntilTag Can`t perform media recovery at point of backup tag. ( Backup Tag Name :<0%s> )**

**Cause:** An attempt was made to restore the database using an invalid backup tag.

**Action:** Restore the database using the correct backup tag.

**0x11174 ( 70004) smERR_ABORT_InvalidBackupInfoFile The backup information file is not valid. ( File Name :<0%s> )**

**Cause:** The file was corrupted by an abnormal shutdown or some other unexpected activity.

**Action:** Restore the backup information file from a recent backup.

**0x11175 ( 70005) smERR_ABORT_InvalidRestoreTime Can`t restore database to specified point of time**

**Cause:** No backup file predating the specified time exists.

**Action:** Restore the database to a more recent point in time.

**0x11176 ( 70006) smERR_ABORT_NotDefinedIncrementalBackupPath No incremental backup path defined**

**Cause:** No incremental backup path has been defined.

**Action:** Specify an incremental backup directory.

**0x11177 ( 70007) smERR_ABORT_AlreadyExistIncrementalBackupPath Incremental backup path already exists (Dir Name :<0%s> )**

**Cause:** The incremental backup path already exists.

**Action:** Change the incremental backup directory, or wait and try incremental backup again.

**0x11178 ( 70008) smERR_ABORT_BackupInfoState Unexpected Backup Information Manager state**

**Cause:** The Backup Information Manager is already enabled or disabled.

**Action:** Check the state of the Backup Information Manager.

**0x11179 ( 70009) smERR_ABORT_AlreadyExistPath Directory already exists (Dir Name :<0%s> ).**

**Cause:** The specified directory already exists.

**Action:** Delete or rename the existing directory, or specify a different directory.

**0x1117A ( 70010) smERR_ABORT_ThereIsNoDatabaseIncrementalBackup There is no incremental database backup.**

**Cause:** An incremental database backup has not been performed.

**Action:** Perform an incremental database backup before restoring the database.

**0x1117B ( 70011) smERR_ABORT_ThereIsNoIncrementalBackup There is no incremental backup.**

**Cause:** An incremental backup has not been performed.

**Action:** Perform an incremental backup before restoring the database.

**0x1117C ( 70012) smERR_ABORT_FailToCreateDirectory Failed to create directory (Dir Name :<0%s> )**

**Cause:** The specified directory could not be created.

**Action:** Check the directory path or permission.

**0x11180 ( 70016) smERR_ABORT_DuplicateMultiplexDirPath A multiplex directory path (<0%s>) has been specified more than once**

**Cause:** Duplicate multiplex directory path settings exist in LOG_MULTIPLEX_DIR and/or ARCHIVE_MULTIPLEX_DIR.

**Action:** Check the LOG_MULTIPLEX_DIR and ARCHIVE_MULTIPLEX_DIR property settings and remove duplicate paths.

**0x11181 ( 70017) smERR_ABORT_WrongLogMultiplexDirCount Number of LOG_MULTIPLEX_DIR(<0%d>) directories not equal to LOG_MULTIPLEX_COUNT(<1%d>)**

**Cause:** The number of directories specified using the LOG_MULTIPLEX_DIR property is different from the value of LOG_MULTIPLEX_COUNT.

**Action:** Set the value of LOG_MULTIPLEX_COUNT to the number of directories specified using LOG_MULTIPLEX_DIR.

**0x11182 ( 70018) smERR_ABORT_WrongArchMultiplexDirCount Number of ARCH_MULTIPLEX_DIR(<0%d>) directories not equal to ARCH_MULTIPLEX_COUNT(<1%d>)**

**Cause:** The number of directories specified using the ARCH_MULTIPLEX_DIR property is different from the value of ARCH_MULTIPLEX_COUNT.

**Action:** Set the value of ARCH_MULTIPLEX_COUNT to the number of directories specified using ARCH_MULTIPLEX_DIR.

**0x11184 ( 70020) smERR_ABORT_NOT_ENOUGH_WORKAREA Insufficient free space in work area**

**Cause:** There is not enough free space in the work area.

**Action:** Increase the value of the TOTAL_WA_SIZE property.

**0x11185 ( 70021) smERR_ABORT_INVALID_SORTAREASIZE Insufficient sort area space**

**Cause:** Cannot manage the page descriptor area due to the decrease in the sort area size.

**Action:** Increase the value of the SORT_AREA_SIZE property.

**0x11186 ( 70022) smERR_ABORT_INVALID_HASHAREASIZE Insufficient hash area space**

**Cause:** Cannot manage the page descriptor area due to the decrease in the hash area size.

**Action:** Increase the value of the HASH_AREA_SIZE property.

**0x11187 ( 70023) smERR_ABORT_TEMP_FLUSHER_STOPPED Cannot sort or hash because all temp flushers are stopped.**

**Cause:** The temporary flushers have stopped due to some unexpected problem.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x11188 ( 70024) smERR_ABORT_ALL_INDEX_DISABLED All Indexes are disabled.**

**Cause:** The requested action could not be performed because all of the indexes for the table are disabled.

**Action:** Enable the index(es) and try again.

**0x11189 ( 70025) smERR_ABORT_PathIsNullString The length of the path is zero.**

**Cause:** The path is an empty string.

**Action:** Provide a valid path to be created.

**0x1118A ( 70026) smERR_ABORT_TablespaceLockUse X or S tablespace lock is not allowed while the TABLESPACE_LOCK_ENABLE property is 0.**

**Cause:** The user tried to execute a DDL command when the TABLESPACE_LOCK_ENABLE property was 0.

**Action:** Change the TABLESPACE_LOCK_ENABLE value to 1.

**0x1118C ( 70028) smERR_ABORT_sdsFlusherNotStarted The Secondary flusher [<0%d>] was not started.**

**Cause:** The flusher was not started.

**Action:** Check the secondary flusher status.

**0x1118D ( 70029) smERR_ABORT_sdsFlusherRunning The Secondary flusher [<0%d>] is already running.**

**Cause:** The flusher cannot be started because it is already running.

**Action:** Check the secondary flusher status.

**0x1118E ( 70030) smERR_ABORT_AllSecondaryFlushersStopped You cannot run the DCL command because all secondary flushers are stopped.**

**Cause:** All secondary flushers are stopped.

**Action:** Start some secondary flushers.

**0x1118F ( 70031) smERR_ABORT_PageMovedownStopped Failed to movedown pages.**

**Cause:** Cannot movedown page to the secondary buffer.

**Action:** Check the secondary buffer.

**0x11190 ( 70032) smERR_ABORT_PageMoveUpStopped Failed to moveup a page.**

**Cause:** Cannot moveup page to the secondary buffer.

**Action:** Check the secondary buffer.

**0x11193 ( 70035) smERR_ABORT_InvalidSecondaryBufferHdr Invalid Secondary Buffer File file header**

**Cause:** Invalid Secondary Buffer File header

**Action:** Copy a valid file to [SECONDARY_BUFFER_FILE_DIRECTORY]

**0x11194 ( 70036) smERR_ABORT_invalid_secondary_buffer_propperty Invalid Secondary Buffer property. size=<0%d>, PATH = <1%s>**

**Cause:** The SECONDARY_BUFFER_XXXX property value is invalid.

**Action:** Check the environment variable SECONDARY_BUFFER_XXXX.

**0x11195 ( 70037) smERR_ABORT_service_secondary_buffer_in_recv Recovery failure. Secondary Buffer is serving.**

**Cause:** Secondary Buffer service cannot be served before the recovery phase.

**Action:** Check the environment variable SECONDARY_BUFFER_XXXX.

**0x11196 ( 70038) smERR_ABORT_CannotCreateSecondaryBuffer Unable to create Secondary Buffer.**

**Cause:** A secondary file could not be created.

**Action:** Check the environment variable SECONDARY_BUFFER_XXXX.

**0x11199 ( 70041) smERR_ABORT_Cannot_Perform_Level1_Backup Cannot perform level 1 backup.**

**Cause:** Level 0 backup does not exist.

**Action:** Perform a level 0 backup prior to executing a level 1 backup.

**0x1119A ( 70042) smERR_ABORT_UnableToExecuteAlterTable Unable to execute ALTER TABLE on [ TableOID: <0%lu> ].**

**Cause:** Another transaction is performing an ALTER TABLE statement on the table.

**Action:** Check whether another transaction is performing an ALTER TABLE statement on the table.

**0x1119B ( 70043) smERR_ABORT_TablespaceDoesNotExist Tablespace[ID: %d] does not exist.**

**Cause:** Tablespace which is written in the SCT_UPDATE_DRDB_CREATE_DBF log does not exist in the database.

**Action:** Restore with a valid backup file.

**0x1119E ( 70046) smERR_ABORT_SDMOpenFailed Unable to open SDM device.**

**Cause:** Device does not support Smart SSD features or the device path may be incorrectly specified.

**Action:** Check whether the device specified in the configuration file supports Smart SSD features and is correct.

**0x111A0 ( 70048) smERR_ABORT_Maximum_Column_count_in_temptable Too many columns in a temptable**

**Cause:** Too many columns in a temptable

**Action:** Cannot use queries based on the disk temp table.

**0x111A1 ( 70049) smERR_ABORT_TooManySlotIndiskTempTable Too many slot in disk temp table.**

**Cause:** Cannot manage the page descriptor area bacause value of the properties pertaining to the size of the disk temp table is incompatible.

**Action:** Increase the value of the SORT_AREA_SIZE/HASH_AREA_SIZE property or decrease the value of the TEMP_MAX_PAGE_COUNT

**0x111A2 ( 70050) smERR_ABORT_NO_CALLBACK The database link is not initialized.**

**Cause:** No callback functions are registered for the remote table.

**Action:** Please check that the database link is enabled.

**0x111A3 ( 70051) smERR_ABORT_Invalid_slot Invalid slot access.**

**Cause:** Invalid slot access.

#**Action:**: Refrain from attempting this action.

**0x111A4 ( 70052) smERR_ABORT_TooSmallDirectKeySize Failed to create a direct key index because the column is larger than the available space in the index.**

**Cause:** The column on which the direct key index is to be created is bigger than the maximum size set for the direct key index.

**Action:** Set a larger value for the MAXSIZE option of the direct key index.

**0x111A5 ( 70053) smERR_ABORT_NonDirectKeyOption The DIRECTKEY option is only supported for memory B-Tree indexes.**

**Cause:** The DIRECTKEY option is only supported for memory B-Tree indexes.

**Action:** Create a memory B-Tree index or do not use the DIRECTKEY option for this index.

**0x111A6 ( 70054) smERR_ABORT_InvalidDirectKeyMaxSize The value of the MAXSIZE option exceeds the maximum limit.**

**Cause:** The maximum size of the direct key index exceeds the limit.

**Action:** Check the maximum size of the direct key index and change it so that it is between 8 bytes and one-third of the memory B-Tree node.

**0x111A7 ( 70055) smERR_ABORT_InvalidDataTypeInDirectKey Direct key indexes do not support this data type.**

**Cause:** The direct key index was used for an unsupported data type.

**Action:** Create direct key indexes only on CHAR, VARCHAR, NCHAR, and NVARCHAR columns.

**0x111A8 ( 70056) smERR_ABORT_NoCompressionInDirectKey Direct key indexes do not support compressed columns.**

**Cause:** An attempt was made to create a direct key index on a compressed column.

**Action:** Either create a memory B-Tree index or do not use the DIRECTKEY option for this index.

**0x111A9 ( 70057) smERR_ABORT_NoDirectKeyOnPartTable Direct key indexes do not support partitioned tables.**

**Cause:** An attempt was made to create a direct key index on a partitioned table.

**Action:** Either create a memory B-Tree index or do not use the DIRECTKEY option for this index.

**0x111AA ( 70058) smERR_ABORT_ReorgFail A memory index is failed to reorganizate.**

**Cause:** The system failed to lock a mutex.

**Action:** Retry the reorganization.

**0x111AB ( 70059) smERR_ABORT_TOO_MANY_TRAVERSAL It takes too long to retrieve the index. (TableOID: <0%lu>, IndexID: <1%u>)**

**Cause:** An index is corrupt.

**Action:** Drop and rebuild the index.

**0x111AC ( 70060) smERR_ABORT_LogFileSizeIsZero OS return Log file size is zero. ( <0%s> ).**

**Cause:** The log file prepare thread has been failed during a creation of the log file or OS error.

**Action:** Check the log files size. If the size of log file exists zero, remove its below.

**0x111AD ( 70061) smERR_ABORT_InvalidDatafileHeader The data file '<0%s>' has an invalid header. : DATABASE SID=<1%u>, FID=<2%u>, RedoLSN=control[<3%u>, <4%u>], [<5%u>, <6%u>], CreateLSN=control[<7%u>, <8%u>], [<9%u>, <10%u>], DBVer=<11%u>, CtrVer=<12%u>, FileVer=<13%u>**

**Cause:** The data file creation LSN does not match one of the log anchor files.

**Action:** Verify the data file.

**0x111AE ( 70062) smERR_ABORT_InvalidDataFileCreateLSN The create LSN (<0%u>, <1%u>) of the data file (<2%s>) is bigger than the restart redo LSN (<3%u>, <4%u>).**

**Cause:** The data file is invalid.

**Action:** Verify that the data file was backed up correctly.

**0x111B0 ( 70064) smERR_ABORT_NotFoundLog Cannot find the log record (LSN >= <0%u>,<1%u> ) that is needed in the logfile (<2%s>).**

**Cause:** The log file is invalid.

**Action:** Check the logfile.

**0x111B1 ( 70065) smERR_ABORT_InvalidLog Invalid Log (FileNo:<0%d>,Offset:<1%d>)**

**Cause:** The log file is invalid.

**Action:** Check the logfile.

**0x111B2 ( 70066) smERR_ABORT_InvalidBCB The BCB does not exist or is not valid. ( SpaceID:<0%u>, PageID:<1%u> )**

**Cause:** The BCB does not exist or is not valid.

**Action:** Please shut down and restart to rebuild BCB List.

**0x111B3 ( 70067) smERR_ABORT_smnUniqueViolationInReplTrans Unique violation caused conflict resolution in replication.**

**Cause:** Unique violation caused conflict resolution on replication.

**Action:** Check the conflict message written on $ALTIBASE_HOME/trc/altibase_rp.log.

**0x111B4 ( 70068) smERR_ABORT_NOT_SUPPORT_FALLOCATE The operation is not supported by the filesystem(or kernel).**

**Cause:** The filesystem(or kernel) containing the file does not support this operation.

**Action:** Set the LOG_CREATE_METHOD property value to 0 and restart the server.

**0x111B5 (  70069) smERR_ABORT_ERR_LOG_CONSISTENCY Incomplete media recovery aborted due to log consistency failure. ( <0%s> ).** 

**Cause:** A log file has been lost. If Incomplete media recovery continues, data may be lost.

**Action:** Copy a valid log file to [LOG_DIR] or move log files that are not needed for recovery to another directory.

**0x111B6 (  70070) smERR_ABORT_ERR_NOT_USED_LOCK_MGR_TYPE_VALUE LOCK_MGR_TYPE 1 is deprecated.**

**Cause:** Spin lock mode is no longer used.

**Action:** You must change LOCK_MGR_TYPE to 0 or 2.

**0x111BC (  70076) smERR_ABORT_TX_SEGMENT_ENTRY_ALLOC Failed to allocate transaction segment entry. (Entry count:<0%d>)  (TID:<1%d>)**

**Cause:** The number of transaction segments exceeds TRANSACTION_SEGMENT_COUNT

**Action:** Check TRANSACTION_SEGMENT_COUNT

**0x111BD (  70077) smERR_ABORT_UNSUPPORTED_INDEXTYPE Unsupported index type.**

**Cause:** Disk indexes that has primary key attributes are not supported by index statistics.

**Action:** Please check the type of the index.

**0x111BE (  70078) smERR_ABORT_NOT_BUILT_INDEX Failed to scan the index because it was not rebuilt. (Index Name :<0%s>)**

**Cause:** This index was not rebuilt when the Altibase server was starting up. The value of INDEX_REBUILD_AT_STARTUP property is set to 0.

**Action:** Rebuild this index. Or to rebuild all the indexes, delete INDEX_REBUILD_AT_STARTUP = 0 in altibase.properties and restart the Altibase server.

**0x111BF ( 70079) smERR_ABORT_NOLOGGING_MODE Unable to execute this opertation because the iLoader is inserting data in nologging mode on the target table. (TableOID : <0%lu>)**

**Cause:** Cannot update or delete tables where iloader is inserting data in nologging mode.

**Action:** Try again after the iloader operation.

**0x111C0 ( 70080) smERR_ABORT_smiWrittenLobCursorExist Unable to commit because the LobCursor that was writing is open.**

**Cause:** The LobCursor that was writing is not closed for an unknown reason.

**Action:** Rollback the transaction and check the server environments including disk usage, etc.

**0x111C1 ( 70081) smERR_ABORT_WrongLogFileSize The log file size has changed. : <0%s> (current file size:<1%u>, expected file size:<2%u>)**

**Cause:** The log file size has changed abnormally, so that the file is invalid.

**Action:** Check if the backed-up file for the log file exists and restore it. If it's not available, contact Altibase's Support Center (http://support.altibase.com).

### IGNORE

**0x12007 ( 73735) smERR_IGNORE_SyncFail Failed to invoke the msync() system function**

**Cause:** The system failed to synchronize a file with mapped memory.

**Action:** Ignore this error message.

**0x1214B ( 74059) smERR_IGNORE_CAN_NOT_USE_THIS_LOCATOR You can't use this LobLocator.**

**Cause:** A NULL LobLocator cannot be used.

**Action:** Refrain from attempting this action.

### RETRY

**0x1304C ( 77900) smERR_RETRY_Already_Modified A record has already been updated.**

**Cause:** Another transaction has already updated the same record.

**Action:** No action is necessary.

**0x13055 ( 77909) smERR_REBUILD_smiTableModified The table structure has been modified.**

**Cause:** The table structure has been modified.

**Action:** Build the query again.

**0x13111 ( 78097) smERR_REBUILD_smiTBSModified The tablespace structure has been modified**

**Cause:** The tablespace has been dropped.

**Action:** Build the query again.

**0x1318B ( 78219) smERR_RETRY_Row_Retry A record has already been updated.**

**Cause:** Another transaction has already updated the same record.

**Action:** No action is necessary.