# 6.SD Error Code

### ABORT

**0xE1001 ( 921601) sdERR_ABORT_SDM_SHARD_META_NOT_CREATED There is no shard
meta \<0%s\>.**

**Cause:** The shard meta has not been created.

**Action:** Create shard meta.

**0xE1002 ( 921602) sdERR_ABORT_SDM_SHARD_NODE_OVERFLOW There is overflow in the
number of shard data nodes.**

**Cause:** The shard data nodes are exceeded.

**Action:** Refer to the manual to verify the number of permissible shard data
nodes.

**0xE1003 ( 921603) sdERR_ABORT_SDM_SHARD_NODE_NOT_EXIST The shard data node
cannot be found.**

**Cause:** The specified shard data node does not exist.

**Action:** Verify if the name of shard data node is correct.

**0xE1004 ( 921604) sdERR_ABORT_SDM_SHARD_TABLE_NOT_EXIST The shard object
cannot be found.**

**Cause:** The shard object does not exist.

**Action:** Verify if the shard object is correct.

**0xE1005 ( 921605) sdERR_ABORT_SDM_SHARD_KEY_COLUMN_NOT_EXIST The shard key
\<0%s\>.\<1%s\>.\<2%s\> cannot be found.**

**Cause:** The specified shard key does not exist.

**Action:** Verify if the shard key is correct.

**0xE1006 ( 921606) sdERR_ABORT_SDM_UNSUPPORTED_SHARD_KEY_COLUMN_TYPE The data
type of shard key \<0%s\>.\<1%s\>.\<2%s\> is not supported.**

**Cause:** The data type is not supported by the shard key.

**Action:** Verify if the data type used in the shard key is correct.

**0xE1007 ( 921607) sdERR_ABORT_SDM_INVALID_RANGE_FUNCTION The split method in
the shard key does not correspond.**

**Cause:** The split method in the shard key does not correspond.

**Action:** Verify if the split method is correct.

**0xE1008 ( 921608) sdERR_ABORT_SDM_AREADY_EXIST_SHARD_OBJECT The object already
exists.**

**Cause:** The object is a pre-existing shard object.

**Action:** Verify the object name.

**0xE1009 ( 921609) sdERR_ABORT_SDM_SYSTEM_OBJECT A shard object cannot be
created with a meta object.**

**Cause:** A shard object cannot be created with a meta object.

**Action:** Verify if the object privilege is correct.

**0xE100A ( 921610) sdERR_ABORT_SDM_CHECK_META_VERSION Confirmation of shard
version failed.**

**Cause:** The shard version cannot be confirmed.

**Action:** Verify the shard version with the altibase-v command to see if the
version is correct.

**0xE100B ( 921611) sdERR_ABORT_SDM_MISMATCH_META_VERSION The shard version
between meta node and data node is mismatched.**

**Cause:** The shard version between meta and data nodes does not correspond.

**Action:** Verify the shard version with the altibase-v command to see if the
version is correct.

**0xE100D ( 921613) sdERR_ABORT_SDM_DUPLICATED_RANGE_VALUE The range value of shard key is duplicated.**

**Cause:** The range value of shard key is duplicated.

**Action:** Verify if the range value of shard key is correct.

**0xE100E ( 921614) sdERR_ABORT_SDM_INVALID_META_NODE_INFO Invalid information of shard meta node**

**Cause:** Table SYS_SHARD.LOCAL_META_INFO_ has no record or more than one record.

**Action:** Execute function DBMS_SHARD.RESET_META_NODE_ID to correct the table SYS_SHARD.LOCAL_META_INFO_.

**0xE100F ( 921615) sdERR_ABORT_SDM_SHARD_RANGE_OVERFLOW There is overflow in the number of shard ranges.**

**Cause:** The shard ranges are exceeded.

**Action:** Refer to the manual to verify the number of permissible shard ranges.

**0xE1010 ( 921616) sdERR_ABORT_SDM_EXIST_REFERENCES_NODE There is an object that references a node.**

**Cause:** There is an object that references a node.

**Action:** Verify the shard meta information.

**0xE1065 ( 921701) sdERR_ABORT_SDA_NOT_SUPPORTED_SQLTEXT_FOR_SHARD The
statement is not supported in Altibase sharding due to the following reason:
\<0%s\>.**

**Cause:** Altibase sharding does not support the statement.

**Action:** Verify if the statement is correct.

**0xE1066 ( 921702) sdERR_ABORT_SDA_INVALID_SHARD_KEY_CONDITION Invalid shard
key value expression was used.**

**Cause:** The expression of shard key value is invalid.

**Action:** Verify if the shard key expression is correct.

**0xE1067 ( 921703) sdERR_ABORT_SDA_NOT_EXIST_SHARD_KEY_CONDITION The shard key
value cannot be found.**

**Cause:** The shard key value does not exist.

**Action:** Verify if the shard key exists.

**0xE1068 ( 921704) sdERR_ABORT_SDA_DATA_NODE_NOT_FOUND The data node corresponding to the shard key cannot be found.**

**Cause:** The data node that matches the shard key cannot be found due to inappropriate setting of shard tables.

**Action:** Verify the distribution setting or shard key value.

**0xE10C9 ( 921801) sdERR_ABORT_SDF_INVALID_SHARD_NODE Invalid shard data node
was used.**

**Cause:** The host IP and port number for shard data node cannot be found.

**Action:** Verify the host IP and port number for shard data node.

**0xE10CA ( 921802) sdERR_ABORT_SDF_AREADY_EXIST_SHARD_NODE The shard data node
of identical IP and port already exists.**

**Cause:** The shard data node of identical IP and port already exists.

**Action:** Verify the IP and port of the shard data node.

**0xE10CB ( 921803) sdERR_ABORT_SDF_SHARD_USER_NAME_TOO_LONG The object user
name is too long.**

**Cause:** The user name of a shard object is permitted to contain less than 128
characters.

**Action:** Verify the length of the object user name.

**0xE10CC ( 921804) sdERR_ABORT_SDF_SHARD_TABLE_NAME_TOO_LONG The object name is
too long.**

**Cause:** The shard object name is permitted to contain less than 128
characters.

**Action:** Verify the length of the object name.

**0xE10CD ( 921805) sdERR_ABORT_SDF_SHARD_NODE_NAME_TOO_LONG The name of shard
data node is too long.**

**Cause:** The name of shard data node is permitted to contain less than 40
characters.

**Action:** Verify the length of the shard data node name.

**0xE10CE ( 921806) sdERR_ABORT_SDF_SHARD_MAX_VALUE_TOO_LONG The maximum value
for shard split method is too large.**

**Cause:** The maximum value for shard split method is too large.

**Action:** Refer to the manual to verify permissible range for the shard split
method.

**0xE10CF ( 921807) sdERR_ABORT_SDF_SHARD_KEYCOLUMN_NAME_TOO_LONG The shard key
name is too long.**

**Cause:** The shard key name is permitted to contain less than 40 characters.

**Action:** Verify the length of the shard key name.

**0xE10D0 ( 921808) sdERR_ABORT_SDF_INVALID_SHARD_SPLIT_METHOD_NAME The shard
split method is invalid.**

**Cause:** Invalid shard split method is used.

**Action:** Refer to the manual verify if the shard split method is correct.

**0xE10D1 ( 921809) sdERR_ABORT_SDF_INVALID_SHARD_TABLE The specified object
cannot be found.**

**Cause:** The specified object does not exist.

**Action:** Retry after verifying the object and user name.

**0xE10D2 ( 921810) sdERR_ABORT_SDF_INVALID_RANGE_VALUE The permissible range of
shard key \<0%s\> is invalid.**

**Cause:** The permissible range for the shard key is invalid.

**Action:** Refer to the manual to verify the permissible range for the shard
key.

**0xE10D3 ( 921811) sdERR_ABORT_SDF_INVALID_SUB_SHARD_KEY_NAME Invalid sub-shard key name.**

**Cause:** Sub-shard key name and shard key name are the same.

**Action:** Verify if the name of sub-shard key is correct.

**0xE10D4 ( 921812) sdERR_ABORT_SDF_UNSUPPORTED_SUB_SHARD_KEY_SPLIT_TYPE The split method of sub-shard key is not supported.**

**Cause:** Unsupported sub-shard key split method.

**Action:** Verify that the split method of the sub-shard key.

**0xE10D5 ( 921813) sdERR_ABORT_SDF_UNSUPPORTED_SHARD_SPLIT_METHOD_NAME The shard split method is not supported.**

**Cause:** The shard split method is not supported.

**Action:** Verify that the split method name.

**0xE10D6 ( 921814) sdERR_ABORT_SDF_UNSUPPORTED_META_CONNTYPE The internal(meta) connection type is not supported. : <0%d>**

**Cause:** Supported internal connection types are 1, 8.

**Action:** Verify the internal connection type.

**0xE10D7 ( 921815) sdERR_ABORT_SDF_CANNOT_DELETE_CURRENT_SMN The shard meta data as the current SMN can not be deleted.**

**Cause:** Only the shard meta data with the old shard meta number can be deleted.

**Action:** Check the current shard meta number of SYS_SHARD.GLOBAL_META_INFO_.

**0xE10D8 ( 921816) sdERR_ABORT_SDF_INVALID_META_CHANGE Invalid shard meta change information**

**Cause:** The shard meta information that you need is not exist. 

**Action:** Check the the shard meta information of the object.

**0xE112D ( 921901) sdERR_ABORT_SHARD_LIBRARY_ERROR An error occurred in the
library function call when executing \<1%s\> for shard data node \<0%s\>.**

**Cause:** There is an error in library function call of shard data node.

**Action:** Verify the state of shard data node.

**0xE112E ( 921902) sdERR_ABORT_SHARD_LIBRARY_ERROR_1 The following error occurs
when \<1%s\> of shard data node \<0%s\> is performed.: \<2%s\>**

**Cause:** An error occurred during the library function call of the shard data
node.

**Action:** Verify the state of shard data node.

**0xE112F ( 921903) sdERR_ABORT_SHARD_LIBRARY_ERROR_2 The following error occurs
when \<1%s\> of shard data node \<0%s\> is performed.: \<2%s\>\<3%s\>**

**Cause:** An error occurred during the library function call of the shard data
node.

**Action:** Verify the state of shard data node.

**0xE1130 ( 921904) sdERR_ABORT_SHARD_LIBRARY_ERROR_3 The following error occurs
when \<1%s\> of shard data node \<0%s\> is performed.: \<2%s\>\<3%s\>\<4%s\>**

**Cause:** An error occurred during the library function call of the shard data
node.

**Action:** Verify the state of shard data node.

**0xE1131 ( 921905) sdERR_ABORT_SHARD_LIBRARY_ERROR_4 The following error occurs
when \<1%s\> of shard data node \<0%s\> is performed.:
\<2%s\>\<3%s\>\<4%s\>\<5%s\>**

**Cause:** An error occurred during the library function call of the shard data
node.

**Action:** Verify the state of shard data node.

**0xE1132 ( 921906) sdERR_ABORT_SHARD_LIBRARY_LINK_FAILURE_ERROR The link failed
when performing \<1%s\> on shard data node \<0%s\>.**

**Cause:** The link on the shard data node failed.

**Action:** Verify the state of link on the shard data node.

**0xE1133 ( 921907) sdERR_ABORT_INIT_SDL_ODBCCLI The library initialization
failed and the following error occurred: \<0%s\>**

**Cause:** Library initialization failed.

**Action:** Verify the library of shard meta node.

**0xE1134 ( 921908) sdERR_ABORT_EXECUTE_NULL_DBC The connection cannot be found
when shard data node \<0%s\> is \<1%s\>.**

**Cause:** The connection state of shard data node does not exist.

**Action:** Verify the connection state.

**0xE1135 ( 921909) sdERR_ABORT_EXECUTE_NULL_STMT The statement cannot be found
when shard data node \<0%s\> is \<1%s\>.**

**Cause:** The statement in the shard data node does not exist.

**Action:** Verify the statement in the shard data node.

**0xE1136 ( 921910) sdERR_ABORT_UNINITIALIZED_LIBRARY Shard data node \<0%s\>
fails to perform \<1%s\> because the library was not initialized.**

**Cause:** The library of shard meta node was not initialized.

**Action:** Restart the server after verifying the library of shard meta node.

**0xE1137 ( 921911) sdERR_ABORT_DBCLINK_ALLOC \<1%s\> on shard data node \<0%s\>
failed.**

**Cause:** There is insufficient memory for the shard data node connection.

**Action:** Verify the memory usage.

**0xE1138 ( 921912) sdERR_ABORT_SHARD_XA_LIBRARY_ERROR An error occurred in the library function call when executing <1%s> for shard <0%s>.**

**Cause:** There is an error in library function call of shard xa function

**Action:** Verify the state of shard library.

**0xE1139 ( 921913) sdERR_ABORT_SHARD_LIBRARY_FAILOVER_SUCCESS The <1%s> of server-side failover success.: <0%s> <2%s>**

**Cause:** Session failover success

**Action:** Re-execute application logic.

**0xE113A ( 921914) sdERR_ABORT_INTERNAL_ALTERNATE_NODE_SETTING_IS_MISSING Alternate shard node <0%s> information is missing from external or internal network settings.**

**Cause:** Alternate shard node information is missing from external or internal network settings.

**Action:** Verify the alternate host IP and port number of the shard node.

**0xE113B ( 921915) sdERR_ABORT_SHARD_NODE_FAILOVER_IS_NOT_AVAILABLE Failover is not available.**

**Cause:** Failed to connect to shard library or coordinates.

**Action:** Check the shard node status or network.

**0xE113C ( 921916) sdERR_ABORT_EXECUTE_NULL_SD_STMT The shard statement cannot be found when performing <1%s> to shard data node <0%s>.**

**Cause:** The statement in the shard coordinator does not exist.

**Action:** Verify the statement in the shard coordinator.

**0xE1191 ( 922001) sdERR_ABORT_SDPJ_SYNTAX JSON syntax error**

**Cause:** The unusable reserved words or delimiter inapplicable was used. Or the reserved word cannot be used.

**Action:** Refer to JSON format.

**0xE1192 ( 922002) sdERR_ABORT_SDPJ_ALLOC JSON parsering failed at <0%d>% due to insufficient memory buffer.**

**Cause:** There is insufficient memory buffer in JSON parser.

**Action:** Verify the memory buffer size.

**0xE1193 ( 922003) sdERR_ABORT_SDPJ_CONVERT Fail to convert the condition to shard analyze information. (<0%s>)**

**Cause:** The condition does not contain shard information or is incorrect.

**Action:** Verify the condition.

**0xE1321 ( 922401) sdERR_ABORT_SDI_SHARD_LINKER_NOT_INITIALIZED The meta
connection cannot be initialized.**

**Cause:** The meta connection was not initialized.

**Action:** Verify the setting of shard meta and data is correct.

**0xE1322 ( 922402) sdERR_ABORT_SDI_INCOMPLETE_RANGE_SET The shard key range of
\<0%s\>.\<1%s\> is invalid.**

**Cause:** The shard key range is invalid.

**Action:** Verify the key range for shard split method.

**0xE1323 ( 922403) sdERR_ABORT_SDI_NOT_EXIST_SHARD_ANALYSIS The result of shard analysis does not exist.**

**Cause:** The result of shard analysis does not exist.

**Action:** Verify the distribution setting or shard key value.

**0xE1324 ( 922404) sdERR_ABORT_SDI_DATA_NODE_NOT_FOUND The data node corresponding to the shard key cannot be found.**

**Cause:** The data node that matches the shard key cannot be found due to inappropriate setting of shard tables.

**Action:** Verify the distribution setting or shard key value.

**0xE1325 ( 922405) sdERR_ABORT_SDI_DUPLICATED_NODE_NAME Duplicate node name <0%s>**

**Cause:** Duplicate node name

**Action:** Verify that no duplicate node names are specified.

**0xE1326 ( 922406) sdERR_ABORT_SDI_INVALID_NODE_NAME Invalid node name <0%s>**

**Cause:** Invalid node name

**Action:** Verify that the node name is valid.

**0xE1327 ( 922407) sdERR_ABORT_SDI_INVALID_NODE_NAME2 Invalid node name: <0%s>**

**Cause:** Invalid node name

**Action:** Verify that the node name is valid.

**0xE1328 ( 922408) sdERR_ABORT_SDI_SHARD_META_PROPAGATION_TIMEOUT Shard meta update propagation timeout.**

**Cause:** The changes of the shard meta information are not arrived in time limit.

**Action:** Check shard meta number and information.

**0xE1385 ( 922501) sdERR_ABORT_EXIST_SHARD_TABLE_OUTSIDE_SHARD_VIEW The shard
table is only available within the shard view.: \<0%s\>**

**Cause:** The shard table is only available within the shard view.

**Action:** Rewrite the shard query.

**0xE1386 ( 922502) sdERR_ABORT_INVALID_SHARD_QUERY The shard query is not
supported and the following error occurs.: \<0%s\> \<1%s\>**

**Cause:** The shard query is invalid.

**Action:** Rewrite the shard query.0xE1387

**0xE1387 ( 922503) sdERR_ABORT_UNSUPPORTED_SHARD_DATA_IN_DML The shard keyword is not supported in DML statements**

**Cause:** The shard query is invalid.

**Action:** Rewrite the shard query.

**0xE1388 ( 922504) sdERR_ABORT_SHARD_REBUILD_ERROR Shard rebuild error**

**Cause:** The changes of the shard meta information are not applicable on online.

**Action:** Re-connect the client program.

**0xE13E7 ( 922599) sdERR_ABORT_SDC_UNEXPECTED_ERROR Unexpected errors have
occurred.: \<0%s\>: \<1%s\>**

**Cause:** An unexpected error has occurred.

**Action:** Verify the error number in the trace log file and contact Altibase
Support Center (http://support.altibase.com/en/).

