# 7.ST Error Code

### FATAL

**0xA0003 ( 655363) stERR_FATAL_MEMORY_SHORTAGE Out of memory**

**Cause:** Out of memory

**Action:** Verify that the system has sufficient memory.

**0xA0005 ( 655365) stERR_FATAL_INCOMPATIBLE_TYPE Incompatible data type
\<0%s\>.**

**Cause:** Incompatible data type

**Action:** Check the compatibility between data types.

**0xA0031 ( 655409) stERR_FATAL_COLUMN_NOT_FOUND Unable to find a column**

**Cause:** Unable to find a column.

**Action:** Verify that the column being looked for is valid.

### ABORT

**0xA1002 ( 659458) stERR_ABORT_NOT_APPLICABLE Not applicable**

**Cause:** This error occurs due to a logical programming error.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s
Support Center (http://support.altibase.com/en/).

**0xA1007 ( 659463) stERR_ABORT_LANGUAGE_MODULE_NOT_FOUND Language module
\<0%s\> not found.**

**Cause:** The language module was not found.

**Action:** Check the language.

**0xA1008 ( 659464) stERR_ABORT_DATATYPE_MODULE_NOT_FOUND Data type module
\<0%s\> not found.**

**Cause:** The data type module was not found.

**Action:** Check the data type.

**0xA1009 ( 659465) stERR_ABORT_CONVERSION_MODULE_NOT_FOUND Conversion module
\<0%s\> not found.**

**Cause:** The conversion module was not found.

**Action:** Check the compatibility between data types.

**0xA100A ( 659466) stERR_ABORT_FUNCTION_MODULE_NOT_FOUND Function module
\<0%s\> not found.**

**Cause:** The function module was not found.

**Action:** Use the correct function name.

**0xA100B ( 659467) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_FUNCTION_ARGUMENT Invalid number of
arguments for a function.**

**Cause:** The number of arguments for the function was invalid.

**Action:** Check the number of arguments for the function.

**0xA100C ( 659468) stERR_ABORT_CONVERSION_NOT_APPLICABLE Conversion not
applicable.**

**Cause:** The conversion is not applicable.

**Action:** Check the compatibility between data types.

**0xA100D ( 659469) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_LENGTH Invalid length of the data type**

**Cause:** Invalid length of the data type.

**Action:** Check the length of the data type.

**0xA100E ( 659470) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_PRECISION Invalid precision of the data
type**

**Cause:** Invalid precision of the data type.

**Action:** Check the precision of the data type.

**0xA100F ( 659471) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_SCALE Invalid scale of the data type**

**Cause:** Invalid scale of the data type

**Action:** Check the scale of the data type.

**0xA1010 ( 659472) stERR_ABORT_VALUE_OVERFLOW Value overflow**

**Cause:** Value overflow

**Action:** Change the value or data type.

**0xA1011 ( 659473) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_LITERAL Invalid literal**

**Cause:** Invalid literal

**Action:** Check the constant indicating the data type.

**0xA1013 ( 659475) stERR_ABORT_STACK_OVERFLOW Calculation stack overflow**

**Cause:** Calculation stack overflow

**Action:** Alter the calculation stack size using the ALTER SESSION statement.

**0xA1014 ( 659476) stERR_ABORT_NOT_AGGREGATION The function is not an aggregate
function.**

**Cause:** The function is not an aggregate function.

**Action:** Remove the ALL or DISTINCT keyword.

**0xA1016 ( 659478) stERR_ABORT_DIVIDE_BY_ZERO Division by zero**

**Cause:** Division by zero

**Action:** Determine whether an attempt to divide a number by zero is being
made.

**0xA1017 ( 659479) stERR_ABORT_ARGUMENT_NOT_APPLICABLE The argument is not
applicable.**

**Cause:** The argument is not applicable to the function.

**Action:** Change the argument so that it falls within the valid range.

**0xA1018 ( 659480) stERR_ABORT_NOT_SUPPORTED_OBJECT_TYPE The specified object
type is not currently supported.**

**Cause:** Unsupported object type

**Action:** For geometry types, only the POINT type is currently supported.

**0xA1019 ( 659481) stERR_ABORT_OBJECT_TYPE_NOT_APPLICABLE Inapplicable object
type**

**Cause:** The specified object type is not applicable to the function.

**Action:** Check the object type.

**0xA101A ( 659482) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_WKT Error parsing well-known-text**

**Cause:** The specified well-known-text is not correct.

**Action:** Check the well-known-text.

**0xA101B ( 659483) stERR_ABORT_TO_CHAR_MAX_PRECISION The value exceeds the
maximum precision ( \<0%d\> ) of the format.**

**Cause:** Maximum precision of format exceeded.

**Action:** Check the size of format string.

**0xA101C ( 659484) stERR_ABORT_VALIDATE_INVALID_VALUE Invalid data value**

**Cause:** The value of the data exceeds the logical value scope.

**Action:** Check the data value.

**0xA101D ( 659485) stERR_ABORT_VALIDATE_INVALID_LENGTH Invalid data length**

**Cause:** The length of the data exceeds the valid scope.

**Action:** Check the length of the data.

**0xA101E ( 659486) stERR_ABORT_CODING_INVALID_FMT Invalid coding format**

**Cause:** The compiled coding format is not valid.

**Action:** Check the compiled format.

**0xA101F ( 659487) stERR_ABORT_CODING_DATA_FMT_MISMATCH Mismatched data and
format**

**Cause:** The data string does not match the specified format.

**Action:** Check the data string.

**0xA1020 ( 659488) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_LITERAL_AFTER_ESCAPE Missing or invalid
literal following the escape character**

**Cause:** Either '%' or '_' must follow the escape character.

**Action:** Check the LIKE predicate.

**0xA1021 ( 659489) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_ESCAPE Invalid escape literal**

**Cause:** The length of the escape is greater than one. The escape literal is
invalid.

**Action:** Check the escape character in the LIKE predicate.

**0xA1022 ( 659490) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_DATE Invalid date literal**

**Cause:** The text to be converted to a date type is invalid.

**Action:** Check the arguments for the date conversion function.

**0xA1023 ( 659491) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_YEAR Invalid year**

**Cause:** The year part of the date literal is invalid or out of range.

**Action:** Check the arguments for the date conversion function.

**0xA1024 ( 659492) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_MONTH Invalid month**

**Cause:** The month part of the date literal is invalid or out of range.

**Action:** Check the arguments for the date conversion function.

**0xA1025 ( 659493) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_DAY Invalid day**

**Cause:** The day part of the date literal is invalid or out of range.

**Action:** Check the arguments for the date conversion function.

**0xA1026 ( 659494) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_HOUR Invalid hour**

**Cause:** The hour part of the date literal is invalid or out of range.

**Action:** Check the arguments for the date conversion function.

**0xA1027 ( 659495) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_MINUTE Invalid minutes**

**Cause:** The minutes part of the date literal is invalid or out of range.

**Action:** Check the arguments for the date conversion function.

**0xA1028 ( 659496) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_SECOND Invalid seconds**

**Cause:** The seconds part of the date literal is invalid or out of range.

**Action:** Check the arguments for the date conversion function.

**0xA1029 ( 659497) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_MICROSECOND Invalid microseconds**

**Cause:** The microseconds part of the date literal is invalid or out of range.

**Action:** Check the arguments for the date conversion function.

**0xA102B ( 659499) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_DIGEST_ALGORITHM Invalid digest
algorithm.**

**Cause:** The digest algorithm name is unknown.

**Action:** Check the second argument on the digest function.

**0xA102C ( 659500) stERR_ABORT_ARGUMENT_VALUE_OUT_OF_RANGE The argument
'\<0%d\>' is out of range.**

**Cause:** The argument value is out of range.

**Action:** Check the argument value.

**0xA102D ( 659501) stERR_ABORT_DATEDIFF_OUT_OF_RANGE_IN_SECOND The interval
between startdate and enddate exceeded 68 years.**

**Cause:** If the date field name is 'SECOND', the interval between startdate
and enddate must be less than 68 years.

**Action:** Check the values of startdate and enddate.

**0xA102E ( 659502) stERR_ABORT_DATEDIFF_OUT_OF_RANGE_IN_MICROSECOND The
interval between startdate and enddate exceeded 30 days.**

**Cause:** If the date field name is 'MICROSECOND', the interval between
startdate and enddate must be less than 30 days.

**Action:** Check the values of startdate and enddate.

**0xA102F ( 659503) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_SIZE_OF_SECOND_AND_MICROSECOND The
values of SSSSSSSS must be a number of eight digits.**

**Cause:** The values of SSSSSSSS is smaller than eight digits.

**Action:** Check the value of SSSSSSSS.

**0xA1030 ( 659504) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_CHARACTER Invalid character use**

**Cause:** An invalid character is being used.

**Action:** Verify that every character in the input string is a valid
character.

**0xA1032 ( 659506) stERR_ABORT_TRAVERSE_NOT_APPLICABLE Unable to traverse**

**Cause:** The traverse could not be executed.

**Action:** Verify that the traverse is valid.

**0xA1033 ( 659507) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_BYTE_ORDER Invalid byte order
information**

**Cause:** Byte order is invalid.

**Action:** Verify the validity of the byte order.

**0xA1034 ( 659508) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_FUNCTION_PRECISION Invalid function
precision**

**Cause:** The function precision is not valid.

**Action:** Verify the validity of the function precision.

**0xA1035 ( 659509) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_BUFFER_DISTANCE Invalid distance value
for the buffer function**

**Cause:** The distance value for the buffer function is invalid.

**Action:** Verify the validity of the distance value for the buffer function.

**0xA1036 ( 659510) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_RELATE_PATTERN Invalid pattern of the
relate function**

**Cause:** The pattern value of the relate function is invalid

**Action:** Verify that values matching '\*TF012' are set, and that the pattern
length is 9.

**0xA1037 ( 659511) stERR_ABORT_STNMR_DUMP_EMPTY_OBJECT Empty dump object.**

**Cause:** You did not specify a dump object for the dump table.

**Action:** Specify a dump object for the dump table.

**0xA1038 ( 659512) stERR_ABORT_STNMR_INVALID_DUMP_OBJECT Invalid dump object**

**Cause:** The object is not valid for the dump table.

**Action:** Use a valid dump object for the dump table.

**0xA1039 ( 659513) stERR_ABORT_OBJECT_BUFFER_OVERFLOW Object buffer overflow.**

**Cause:** Object buffer overflow.

**Action:** Use the ALTER SESSION/SYSTEM SET ST_OBJECT_BUFFER_SIZE statement or
the ST_OBJECT_BUFFER_SIZE hint to increase the object buffer size.

**0xA103A ( 659514) stERR_ABORT_OBJECT_INTEGRITY_VIOLATION Object integrity
violation.**

**Cause:** Object integrity violation.

**Action:** Verify that a valid object is being used.

**0xA103B ( 659515) stERR_ABORT_RING_POINT_COUNT_LESS_THAN_4 The ring (\<0%d\>)
has less than 4 points**

**Cause:** Object integrity violation.

**Action:** Verify that a valid object is being used.

**0xA103C ( 659516) stERR_ABORT_NOT_CLOSED_RING The ring (\<0%d\>) is not
closed.**

**Cause:** Object integrity violation.

**Action:** Verify that a valid object is being used.

**0xA103D ( 659517) stERR_ABORT_OBJECT_SIZE The size of the object is
incorrect**

**Cause:** Object integrity violation.

**Action:** Verify that a valid object is being used.

**0xA103E ( 659518) stERR_ABORT_RING_BOUND_CROSS The ring \<0%d\> and ring
\<1%d\> bounds cross**

**Cause:** Object integrity violation.

**Action:** Verify that a valid object is being used.

**0xA103F ( 659519) stERR_ABORT_POLYGON_HAS_MULTI_EXTERNAL_RING The external
ring does not include the internal ring \<0%d\>,**

**Cause:** Object integrity violation.

**Action:** Verify that a valid object is being used.

**0xA1040 ( 659520) stERR_ABORT_LINE_POINT_COUNT The point count of a line is
less than 2**

**Cause:** Object integrity violation.

**Action:** Verify that a valid object is being used.

**0xA1041 ( 659521) stERR_ABORT_LINE_POINT_SAME A line has only two points with
the same value**

**Cause:** Object integrity violation.

**Action:** Verify that a valid object is being used.

**0xA1042 ( 659522) stERR_ABORT_RING_LINE_COUNT A ring has less than three
lines**

**Cause:** Object integrity violation.

**Action:** Verify that a valid object is being used.

**0xA1043 ( 659523) stERR_ABORT_RING_ZERO_AREA The area of a ring is zero**

**Cause:** Object integrity violation.

**Action:** Verify that a valid object is being used.

**0xA1044 ( 659524) stERR_ABORT_RING_LINE_CROSS A ring has crossing lines**

**Cause:** Object integrity violation.

**Action:** Verify that a valid object is being used.

**0xA1045 ( 659525) stERR_ABORT_POLYGON_INTERSECTS A multipolygon has
intersecting polygons : (polygon:\<0%d\>, ring:\<1%d\>), (polygon:\<2%d\>,
ring:\<3%d\>)**

**Cause:** Object integrity violation.

**Action:** Verify that a valid object is being used.

**0xA1046 ( 659526) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_WKB Error parsing well-known-binary**

**Cause:** The specified well-known-binary is not correct.

**Action:** Check the well-known-binary.

**0xA1047 ( 659527) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_OBJECT_IN_GEOMCOLLECTION The type
\<0%d\> of object \<1%d\> in the geometry collection is not valid**

**Cause:** The specified well-known-binary is not correct.

**Action:** Check the well-known-binary.

**0xA1048 ( 659528) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_STORED_DATA_LENGTH The data saved in the
DBMS are not the expected length**

**Cause:** The disk page is broken or the meta table has invalid data.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s
Support Center (http://support.altibase.com/en/).

**0xA1049 ( 659529) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_POLYGON Invalid Polygon**

**Cause:** An attempt was made to perform an operation on an invalid polygon.

**Action:** Check the structure of the polygon and try again.

**0xA104A ( 659530) stERR_ABORT_UNKNOWN_POLYGON Unverified Polygon**

**Cause:** An attempt was made to perform an operation on a polygon that has not
been verified.

**Action:** Insert the Polygon again, or perform a validity check on the
polygon.

**0xA104B ( 659531) stERR_ABORT_UNEXPECTED_ERROR Unexpected error: \<0%s\>:
\<1%s\>**

**Cause:** This error occurs due to a logical programming error.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s
Support Center (http://support.altibase.com/en/).

**0xA104C ( 659532) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_POINTS Invalid combination of identical
points**

**Cause:** Two or more points in the geometry object that must have different
values have the same values.

**Action:** Ensure that the geometry object is valid.

**0xA104D ( 659533) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_GEOMETRY Invalid Geometry**

**Cause:** An attempt was made to perform an operation on an invalid geometry
object.

**Action:** Ensure that the geometry object is valid.

**0xA104E ( 659534) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_SRID The Spatial Reference ID(SRID) is incorrect.**

**Cause:** The Spatial Reference ID(SRID) of the geometry column is different from the input SRID.

**Action:** Verify the input Spatial Reference ID(SRID).

**0xA104F ( 659535) stERR_ABORT_MIXED_SRID Operation on mixed SRID geometries. (<0%d>: <1%d>)**

**Cause:** SRIDs of the geometries are mixed.

**Action:** Verify the input SRIDs

**0xA1050 ( 659536) stERR_ABORT_UNKNOWN_SRID Unknown Spatial Reference ID (<0%d>)** 

**Cause:** The Spatial Reference ID(SRID) was not found.

**Action:** Verify the input Spatial Reference ID(SRID).

**0xA1051 ( 659537) stERR_ABORT_PROJ4_INIT_FAILED Failed to initialize PROJ4 library (<0%s>, <1%d>, <2%d>)**

**Cause:** Failed to initialize PROJ4 library.

**Action:** Verify the input arguments.

**0xA1052 ( 659538) stERR_ABORT_PROJ4_TRANSFORM_FAILED Failed to PROJ4 transform (<0%s>)**

**Cause:** Failed to PROJ4 transform.

**Action:** Verify the input arguments.

**0xA1053 ( 659539) stERR_ABORT_INVALID_GEOMETRY_MADEBY_GEOMFROMWKB Invalid Geometry(<0%s>)**

**Cause:** An attempt was made to perform an operation on an invalid geometry.

**Action:** Check the error number from the trace log and contact Altibase’s Support Center (http://support.altibase.com/en/).

### IGNORE

**0xA2000 ( 663552) stERR_IGNORE_NOERROR Ignore this message.**

**Cause:** This is not an error.

**Action:** Ignore this message.

