# 8.ODBC Error Code

### FATAL

**0x5000C ( 327692) ulERR_FATAL_MEMORY_ALLOC_ERROR Memory allocation error. <0%s>.**

**Cause:** Memory space has been exhausted.

**Action:** Reduce the amount of memory being used by the client application.

**0x50032 ( 327730) ulERR_FATAL_FAIL_TO_ESTABLISH_CONNECTION Client unable to establish connection.**

**Cause:** The driver was unable to establish a connection with the data source.

**Action:** Check the connection information.

**0x50047 ( 327751) ulERR_FATAL_MEMORY_MANAGEMENT_ERROR Memory management error <0%s>**

**Cause:** Memory has been corrupted.

**Action:** Contact Altibase's Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x50137 ( 327991) ulERR_FATAL_LOB_NOT_OPENED Memory management error. An attempt was made to execute an operation on a LOB locator that was not open. Possible memory corruption in <0%s>.**

**Cause:** The state of the ulnLob structure was not ULN_LOB_ST_OPENED while attempting to execute an operation on the ulnLob.

**Action:** Contact Altibase's Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x50139 ( 327993) ulERR_FATAL_LOB_INVALID_STATE Memory management error. The LOB function should not be called in this state. Possible memory corruption in <0%s>.**

**Cause:** Failed to call the LOB function using a handle.

**Action:** Contact Altibase's Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

### ABORT

**0x51001 ( 331777) ulERR_ABORT_idnSetDefaultFactoryError No idn Default Factory found.**

**Cause:** No character set was found.

**Action:** Change the NLS_USE property.

**0x51002 ( 331778) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_HANDLE Invalid Handle.**

**Cause:** A handle is invalid.

**Action:** Check if the handle is SQL_NULL_HANDLE or NULL.

**0x5100F ( 331791) ulERR_ABORT_DateTime_Field_Overflow_Error Datetime field overflow. <0%s>.**

**Cause:** Invalid datetime data was used.

**Action:** Check the data type range.

**0x51010 ( 331792) ulERR_ABORT_Invalid_Datatime_Format_Error Invalid datetime format.**

**Cause:** The datetime data format is invalid.

**Action:** Check the datetime format.

**0x51012 ( 331794) ulERR_ABORT_Ignored_Option_Error This option is ignored.**

**Cause:** An unsupported property was used.

**Action:** Check the property value.

**0x51013 ( 331795) ulERR_ABORT_OPTIONAL_FEATURE_NOT_IMPLEMENTED This optional feature is not implemented.**

**Cause:** An unsupported property was used.

**Action:** Check the property value.

**0x51014 ( 331796) ulERR_ABORT_FUNCTION_SEQUENCE_ERR Function sequence error.**

**Cause:** The function call sequence is out of order.

**Action:** Refer to the state transition table.

**0x51015 ( 331797) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_ATTRIBUTE_VALUE Invalid attribute value.**

**Cause:** Invalid attribute value.

**Action:** Check if the value you provided is valid for specified attribute.

**0x51016 ( 331798) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_ATTR_OPTION Invalid attribute/option identifier : <0%d>.**

**Cause:** The attribute or option identifier was invalid.

**Action:** Check the attribute ID or option value.

**0x51018 ( 331800) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_APP_BUFFER_TYPE Invalid application buffer type : <0%d>.**

**Cause:** The application buffer type was invalid.

**Action:** Check the host variable type in the application.

**0x51019 ( 331801) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_DESCRIPTOR_INDEX Invalid descriptor index : <0%d>.**

**Cause:** The value specified for the ParameterNumber argument was less than 1, or the value specified for ColumnNumber was greater than the number of columns in the result set.

**Action:** Check the ParameterNumber argument.

**0x5101A ( 331802) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_PARAM_TYPE Invalid parameter type : <0%d>.**

**Cause:** The value specified for the InputOutputType argument was invalid.

**Action:** Check the InputOutputType argument.

**0x5101B ( 331803) ulERR_ABORT_RESTRICTED_DATATYPE_VIOLATION Restricted data type attribute violation. SQL_C_TYPE <0%d> and SQL_TYPE <1%d> cannot be interconverted.**

**Cause:** The data type identified by the ValueType argument cannot be converted to the data type identified by the ParameterType argument.

**Action:** Check the ValueType and ParameterType attributes.

**0x5101C ( 331804) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_USE_OF_NULL_POINTER Invalid use of null pointer.**

**Cause:** Invalid use of null pointer.

**Action:** Check the value pointer and value length.

**0x5101D ( 331805) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_BUFFER_LEN Invalid string or buffer length : <0%d>.**

**Cause:** The value in BufferLength was less than 0 or greater than the property size.

**Action:** Check the host variable.

**0x51020 ( 331808) ulERR_ABORT_Invalid_StrLen_IndPtr_Error Invalid string length.**

**Cause:** The value in BufferLength was less than 0 or greater than the property value.

**Action:** Check the host variable.

**0x51026 ( 331814) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_CONN_TYPE_ERROR Invalid connection type : (<0%d>).**

**Cause:** Invalid connection type.

**Action:** Check the value of the CONNTYPE keyword.

**0x5102E ( 331822) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_CURSOR_STATE Invalid cursor state.**

**Cause:** A cursor was opened on the StatementHandle, and an invalid function was called.

**Action:** Check the function sequence.

**0x51034 ( 331828) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_SQL_TYPE Invalid SQL data type : <0%d>.**

**Cause:** The value specified for the InfoType argument was not valid for the ODBC version supported by the driver.

**Action:** Check the InfoType argument.

**0x51035 ( 331829) ulERR_ABORT_CONNECTION_NAME_IN_USE Connection name in use.**

**Cause:** The specified ConnectionHandle has already been used to establish a connection, and the connection is still open.

**Action:** Check the ConnectionHandle argument.

**0x51036 ( 331830) ulERR_ABORT_NO_CONNECTION Connection does not exist.**

**Cause:** The connection specified in the ConnectionHandle argument is not open.

**Action:** Check the ConnectionHandle argument.

**0x5103A ( 331834) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_TRANSACTION_OPCODE Invalid transaction operation code.**

**Cause:** The value specified for the CompletionType argument was neither SQL_COMMIT nor SQL_ROLLBACK.

**Action:** Check the CompletionType argument.

**0x51040 ( 331840) ulERR_ABORT_WRONG_FETCH_TYPE Fetch type out of range.**

**Cause:** Invalid FetchOrientation.

**Action:** Check the FetchOrientation value.

**0x51041 ( 331841) ulERR_ABORT_INDICATOR_REQUIRED_BUT_NOT_SUPPLIED_ERR Indicator variable required but not supplied.**

**Cause:** NULL data was bound to an output parameter for which StrLen_or_IndPtr, set in SQLBindParameter, was a null pointer.

**Action:** Set the StrLen_or_IndPtr argument in SQLBindParameter.

**0x51043 ( 331843) ulERR_ABORT_COMMUNICATION_LINK_FAILURE Communication link failure. <0%s>**

**Cause:** Communication link failure.

**Action:** Check the detailed error message following this error message.

**0x51044 ( 331844) ulERR_ABORT_Data_Value_Overflow_Error <0%s> value out of range.**

**Cause:** The value is out of range.

**Action:** Check the value.

**0x5104B ( 331851) ulERR_ABORT_Invalid_Cursor_Position_Error Invalid cursor position.**

**Cause:** The cursor position is within the range of an invalid rowset. Either the row has been deleted or the rowset has not been fetched.

**Action:** Check that the cursor value is within the range of a fetched rowset.

**0x5104C ( 331852) ulERR_ABORT_ROW_VALUE_OUT_OF_RANGE_ERR Row value out of range.**

**Cause:** Row value out of range.

**Action:** Verify that the row value is correct.

**0x5104D ( 331853) ulERR_ABORT_CONNECTION_TIME_OUT Connection timeout.**

**Cause:** Connection timeout.

**Action:** Increase CONNECTION_TIMEOUT value or tune the query.

**0x5104E ( 331854) ulERR_ABORT_CM_CALLBACK_NOT_EXIST Communication module callback function does not exist.**

**Cause:** The communication module version and CLI version are not compatible.

**Action:** Contact Altibase's Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x5104F ( 331855) ulERR_ABORT_CM_GENERAL_ERROR Communication link failure. CM ErrorCode : 0x<0%x>, System errno : <1%d>**

**Cause:** Communication module error.

**Action:** Check the system error number and take appropriate action.

**0x51051 ( 331857) ulERR_ABORT_PARAMETER_NOT_BOUND Some parameters were not bound.**

**Cause:** Some parameters were not bound.

**Action:** Check whether all the parameters were bound.

**0x51052 ( 331858) ulERR_ABORT_UNHANDLED_MT_TYPE An unhandled server data type (<0%d>) has been received.**

**Cause:** Received an invalid server data type.

**Action:** Check whether the server data type is supported.

**0x51056 ( 331862) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_USE_OF_IMP_DESC Invalid use of an automatically allocated descriptor handle.**

**Cause:** An attempt was made to manipulate a descriptor handle allocated by the driver.

**Action:** Check the coding, and check that the proper syntax was used.

**0x51057 ( 331863) ulERR_ABORT_STMT_HAVE_NO_RESULT_SET The prepared statement is not a cursor specification.**

**Cause:** Since the statement associated with the statement handle did not return a result set, there was no column to describe.

**Action:** Check that the executed query returns a result set.

**0x51059 ( 331865) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_TRANSACTION_STATE Invalid transaction state.**

**Cause:** Failed to execute the command.

**Action:** Check the transaction status.

**0x5105E ( 331870) ulERR_ABORT_ATTRIBUTE_CANNOT_BE_SET_NOW Attribute cannot be set now.**

**Cause:** Failed to set the attribute.

**Action:** Check the function call sequence.

**0x5105F ( 331871) ulERR_ABORT_FUNCTION_TYPE_OUT_OF_RANGE Function type out of range.**

**Cause:** Invalid function type.

**Action:** Check the function type.

**0x51062 ( 331874) ulERR_ABORT_CONNTYPE_NOT_SUPPORTED Invalid attribute Value**

CONNTYPE <0%d> is currently not supported.

**Cause:** Invalid CONNTYPE.

**Action:** Check CONNTYPE.

**0x51067 ( 331879) ulERR_ABORT_PORT_NO_ALTIBASE_PORT_NO_NOT_SET Neither PORT_NO in the connection string nor the ALTIBASE_PORT_NO environment variable has been set.**

**Cause:** A port has not been set.

**Action:** Set the port with a connection string or the ALTIBASE_PORT_NO environment variable.

**0x51068 ( 331880) ulERR_ABORT_ALTIBASE_HOME_NOT_SET The ALTIBASE_HOME environment variable must be set before trying to connect to the Altibase server through a UNIX domain.**

**Cause:** The ALTIBASE_HOME environment variable has not been set.

**Action:** Refer to the manual and set the ALTIBASE_HOME environment variable.

**0x5106C ( 331884) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_INFO_TYPE Invalid information type. SQLGetInfo does not know the InfoType <0%d>.**

**Cause:** Invalid InfoType.

**Action:** Verify that InfoType is valid.

**0x5106D ( 331885) ulERR_ABORT_READONLY_DESCRIPTOR_FIELD Invalid descriptor field identifier : <0%d>. The descriptor field is read-only.**

**Cause:** An attempt was made to change a read-only descriptor field.

**Action:** Check the coding, and check that the proper syntax was used.

**0x5106E ( 331886) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_ALTIBASE_PORT_NO Connection string does not have PORT_NO, and environment variable ALTIBASE_PORT_NO does not have a valid value : <0%s>.**

**Cause:** The connection type is TCP, but the connection string does not specify a PORT_NO. In addition, the environment variable ALTIBASE_PORT_NO is not valid.

**Action:** Set the ALTIBASE_PORT_NO environment variable correctly. Or specify PORT_NO in the connection string.

**0x51070 ( 331888) ulERR_ABORT_UNHANDLED_MT_TYPE_BINDINFO <0%s> : There is missing case in Bindinfo build table, where CTYPE = <1%d>, MTYPE = <2%d>.**

**Cause:** Internal error.

**Action:** Contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x51071 ( 331889) ulERR_ABORT_RESTRICTED_DATATYPE_VIOLATION_BOOKMARK Restricted data type attribute violation. The ColumnNumber argument was 0, but the TargetType argument was not SQL_C_BOOKMARK or SQL_C_VARBOOKMARK.**

**Cause:** The ColumnNumber argument was 0, but the TargetType argument was not SQL_C_BOOKMARK or SQL_C_VARBOOKMARK.

**Action:** Check the TargetType argument value.

**0x51072 ( 331890) ulERR_ABORT_NUMERIC_VALUE_OUT_OF_RANGE Numeric value out of range.**

**Cause:** The numeric value is out of range.

**Action:** Check the numeric value.

**0x51073 ( 331891) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_DESC_FIELD_IDENTIFIER Invalid descriptor field identifier : <0%d>.**

**Cause:** An invalid descriptor field ID was used.

**Action:** Check the descriptor field ID.

**0x51075 ( 331893) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_NUMERIC_LITERAL Invalid character value for cast specification.**

**Cause:** A data value that cannot be converted has been input.

**Action:** Check the data type and input value.

**0x51076 ( 331894) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_CONVERSION Restricted data type attribute violation. SQL_TYPE cannot be converted to SQL_C_TYPE as requested.**

**Cause:** SQL_TYPE cannot be converted to SQL_C_TYPE as requested.

**Action:** Refer to the CLI User's manual to convert to a supported type.

**0x51077 ( 331895) ulERR_ABORT_NUMERIC_VALUE_OUT_OF_RANGE_MINUS Numeric value out of range. The bound data type is unsigned but the fetched data is less than zero.**

**Cause:** The numeric value is less than zero.

**Action:** Check the numeric value.

**0x51209 ( 332297) ulERR_ABORT_NUMERIC_PRECISION_OUT_OF_RANGE Numeric value out of range. The value exceeded the numeric precision range of SQL_NUMERIC_STRUCT.**

**Cause:** The value exceeded the numeric precision range of SQL_NUMERIC_STRUCT.

**Action:** Change the value or increase the precision.

**0x51078 ( 331896) ulERR_ABORT_NUMERIC_SCALE_OUT_OF_RANGE Numeric value out of range. The value exceeded the numeric scale range of SQL_NUMERIC_STRUCT.**

**Cause:** The value exceeded the numeric scale range of SQL_NUMERIC_STRUCT.

**Action:** Use a value within the numeric scale range of SQL_NUMERIC_STRUCT.

**0x5107A ( 331898) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_CURSOR_POSITION_GD Invalid cursor position. The cursor position was AFTER END or BEFORE START.**

**Cause:** The cursor position was AFTER END or BEFORE START.

**Action:** Use SQLFetch or SQLFetchScroll to move to a valid cursor position.

**0x5107B ( 331899) ulERR_ABORT_BIT_VALUE_OUT_OF_RANGE Numeric value out of range. SQL_C_BIT can only have the value 0 or 1.**

**Cause:** Invalid BIT value.

**Action:** Enter either 0 or 1.

**0x5107C ( 331900) ulERR_ABORT_BINARY_SIZE_NOT_MATCH Numeric value out of range. SQL_C_BINARY data length does not match the size of the SQL data type.**

**Cause:** SQL_C_BINARY data length does not match the size of the SQL data type.

**Action:** Check whether the data lengths match.

**0x5107D ( 331901) ulERR_ABORT_CANNOT_INSERT_INTERVAL Restricted data type attribute violation. The interval type is only for fetch operations. Interval type columns cannot be created, nor can values be inserted into interval type columns.**

**Cause:** The interval type was used.

**Action:** Use another data type.

**0x51081 ( 331905) ulERR_ABORT_STRING_LENGTH_TOO_LONG Invalid attribute value. The string is too long to be used as an attribute value.**

**Cause:** Invalid attribute value.

**Action:** Check the length of the provided string.

**0x51083 ( 331907) ulERR_ABORT_INCONSISTENT_NIBBLE_PRECISION_AND_BUFFER_SIZE Invalid parameter value. The SQL_NIBBLE data structure precision field value exceeds the specified buffer size.**

**Cause:** Invalid nibble structure precision.

**Action:** Specify an appropriate precision value for the nibble.

**0x51084 ( 331908) ulERR_ABORT_INCONSISTENT_BIT_PRECISION_AND_BUFFER_SIZE Invalid parameter value. The SQL_BIT data structure precision field value exceeds the specified buffer size.**

**Cause:** Invalid SQL_BIT structure precision.

**Action:** Specify an appropriate precision value for the SQL_BIT.

**0x51085 ( 331909) ulERR_ABORT_CANNOT_MODIFY_IRD Cannot modify an implementation row descriptor.**

**Cause:** An attempt was made to modify an implementation row descriptor.

**Action:** Check the coding, and check that the proper syntax was used.

**0x51086 ( 331910) ulERR_ABORT_FETCH_OFFSET_OUT_OF_RANGE Fetch offset is too big or too small.**

**Cause:** A scrollable cursor was used outside the FetchOffset range.

**Action:** When using a scrollable cursor, use it within the FetchOffset range.

**0x51088 ( 331912) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_ARRAY_SIZE Invalid array size. Decrease the array size.**

**Cause:** Invalid array size.

**Action:** Decrease the array size.

**0x51089 ( 331913) ulERR_ABORT_CONVERT_CHARSET_FAILED Failed to convert charset : source charset id = <0%d>, target charset id = <1%d>, source index = <2%d>, target index = <3%d>**

**Cause:** Failed to encode the string.

**Action:** Contact Altibase's Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x5108A ( 331914) ulERR_ABORT_ADMIN_ALREADY_RUNNING Another SYSDBA session is already running.**

**Cause:** A SYSDBA session is already running.

**Action:** Terminate the SYSDBA session process and execute it again.

**0x5108B ( 331915) ulERR_ABORT_INCOMPATIBLE_PROPERTY Incompatible property : [<0%s>]. Upgrade server.**

**Cause:** Incompatible property was used.

**Action:** Upgrade the server to the latest version.

**0x5108D ( 331917) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_CONNECTION_STR_FORM Invalid connection string format: <0%d> : [<1%c>]**

**Cause:** The connection string format is invalid.

**Action:** Check the connection string. If it has exceeded the maximum allowed length. a question mark is output.

**0x51097 ( 331927) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_DATE_STRING Invalid string: [<0%s>] for date format: [<1%s>]**

**Cause:** The input data does not match the date format.

**Action:** Ensure that the input value matches the date format.

**0x51098 ( 331928) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_NUMBER_STRING Invalid string for number: [<0%s>]**

**Cause:** The input string cannot be converted to a number.

**Action:** Check the input string.

**0x51099 ( 331929) ulERR_ABORT_LOCK_SEQUENCE_ERR Lock sequence error.**

**Cause:** invalid Lock call sequence.

**Action:** Try disconnect and reconnect 

**0x5111C ( 332060) ulERR_ABORT_PD_ATTRIBUTE_CANNOT_BE_SET_NOW This attribute cannot be set now. You can not call SQLPutData() with StrLen_or_Ind set to SQL_NULL_DATA after one or more previous calls to SQLPutData() for the same parameter have been returned.**

**Cause:** SQL_NULL_DATA was used for SQLPutData().

**Action:** Enter data other than SQL_NULL_DATA for SQLPutData().

**0x5111D ( 332061) ulERR_ABORT_PD_DATA_TOO_BIG The SQL_CHAR or SQL_VARCHAR data type cannot be bigger than 32KB.**

**Cause:** The SQL_CHAR or SQL_VARCHARSQL_CHAR data type cannot accept a value larger than 32KB.

**Action:** Enter a value smaller than 32KB for the SQL_CHAR or SQL_VARCHARSQL_CHAR data type. If the value is larger than 32KB, divide the value and input several times.

**0x5111F ( 332063) ulERR_ABORT_PD_FIXED_DATA_NOT_ALLOWD_IN_PIECES Non-character and non-binary data sent in pieces.**

**Cause:** An attempt was made to send non-variable data (non-CHAR, BINARY data) in pieces.

**Action:** Send non-variable data in one piece.

**0x5112C ( 332076) ulERR_ABORT_LOB_AUTOCOMMIT_MODE_ERR The connection is in autocommit mode. One cannot operate on LOB data in autocommit mode.**

**Cause:** An attempt to execute a LOB operation was made while the connection is in autocommit mode.

**Action:** Turn off autocommit mode.

**0x5112D ( 332077) ulERR_ABORT_LOB_FILE_WRITE_ERR Failed to write LOB data to the file.**

**Cause:** Failed to write LOB data to the file.

**Action:** Check whether the file path is valid and whether a file can be written.

**0x5112E ( 332078) ulERR_ABORT_LOB_FILE_READ_ERR Failed to read from a file.**

**Cause:** Failed to read the file.

**Action:** Check whether the file path is valid and whether the file can be read.

**0x5112F ( 332079) ulERR_ABORT_FILE_OPEN Failed to open file : <0%s>.**

**Cause:** Failed to open the file.

**Action:** Check whether the file path is valid and whether the file can be read.

**0x51130 ( 332080) ulERR_ABORT_FILE_EXIST The file <0%s> already exists.**

**Cause:** The file already exists.

**Action:** Delete the file, or use the SQL_FILE_OVERWRITE or SQL_FILE_APPEND option.

**0x51131 ( 332081) ulERR_ABORT_FILE_CLOSE Failed to close file : <0%s>.**

**Cause:** Failed to close the file.

**Action:** Check the operating system error number.

**0x51132 ( 332082) ulERR_ABORT_GET_FILE_SIZE Failed to get the file size: <0%s>.**

**Cause:** Failed to retrieve file information due to an operating system error.

**Action:** Check the operating system error number.

**0x51133 ( 332083) ulERR_ABORT_UNKNOWN_FILE_OPTION Unknown file option <0%d>.**

**Cause:** An invalid file option was used.

**Action:** Use a valid file options (SQL_FILE_CREATE, SQL_FILE_OVERWRITE, SQL_FILE_APPEND, SQL_FILE_READ)

**0x51138 ( 332088) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_FILE_OPTION Invalid fileoption <0%d>.**

**Cause:** The specified file option is invalid. For instance, you may have specified SQL_FILE_CREATE while you intended to send the contents of a file to the Altibase server.

**Action:** Use a valid file options (SQL_FILE_CREATE, SQL_FILE_OVERWRITE, SQL_FILE_APPEND, SQL_FILE_READ).

**0x5113A ( 332090) ulERR_ABORT_FILE_SIZE_TOO_BIG General error. The size of the provided file <0%s> is too big. The maximum file size is 4,294,967,295 bytes (4GB-1byte).**

**Cause:** The file is too big.

**Action:** Check the file size and use a smaller file.

**0x5113C ( 332092) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_APP_BUFFER_TYPE_LOB Invalid application buffer type : type id <0%d> cannot be used as a LOB source buffer.**

**Cause:** An invalid buffer type was used.

**Action:** Check the buffer type.

**0x5113E ( 332094) ulERR_ABORT_VALIDATE_INVALID_LENGTH Invalid data value**

**Cause:** The value of the data exceeds the logical value scope.

**Action:** Check the data value.

**0x5113F ( 332095) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_CHARACTER Invalid character use.**

**Cause:** An invalid character is being used.

**Action:** Verify that every character in the input string is a valid character.

**0x51140 ( 332096) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_LOB_RANGE Invalid lob range**

**Cause:** Invalid lob range

**Action:** Check the lob size and use a valid lob range.

**0x51190 ( 332176) ulERR_ABORT_FAILOVER_SUCCESS FailOver Success**

**Cause:** Session FailOver Success

**Action:** Re-execute application logic.

**0x51191 ( 332177) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_ALTERNATE_SERVER_HOST The IP/Host value used in AlternateServers connection attribute is invalid: <0%s>**

**Cause:** The IP/Host value used in the AlternateServers connection attribute is invalid.

**Action:** Make sure the IP/Host value used in the AlternateServers connection attribute is valid.

**0x51192 ( 332178) ulERR_ABORT_GETADDRINFO_ERROR The call to getaddrinfo() failed. The host name or service may be unknown.**

**Cause:** The host name or service may be unknown.

**Action:** Check the host name.

**0x51193 ( 332179) ulERR_ABORT_CONNECT_INVALIDARG Invalid connect() argument.**

**Cause:** An argument for the connect() function was invalid.

**Action:** Check the IP and host name.

**0x51194 ( 332180) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_ALTERNATE_SERVER_FORMAT The value of AlternateServers connection attribute is invalid: <0%s>**

**Cause:** The value of AlternateServers connection attribute does not comply with the specified format.

**Action:** Make sure the value of AlternateServers connection attribute complies with the specified format.

**0x51195 ( 332181) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_ALTERNATE_SERVER_PORT The port values used in AlternateServers connection attribute are invalid: <0%s>**

**Cause:** The port values used in the AlternateServers connection attribute are not numbers or out of available range.

**Action:** Make sure the port values used in the AlternateServers connection attribute are valid.

**0x51196 ( 332182) ulERR_ABORT_ALTERNATE_SERVER_NOT_SET The AlternateServers is not set.**

**Cause:** The AlternateServers is not set.

**Action:** Set up the value of AlternateServers connection.

**0x511F5 ( 332277) ulERR_ABORT_ACS_INSUFFICIENT_BUFFER_SIZE Insufficient buffer size ( <0%d> ). Recommended size is more than ( <1%d> ).**

**Cause:** There was insufficient buffer size for the geometry object.

**Action:** Increase the buffer size.

**0x511F6 ( 332278) ulERR_ABORT_ACS_INVALID_BYTE_ORDER Invalid byte order**

**Cause:** The byte order is invalid.

**Action:** Set the byte order information correctly.

**0x511F7 ( 332279) ulERR_ABORT_ACS_INVALID_DATA_TYPE Invalid geometry sub-type**

**Cause:** The geometry sub-type is invalid.

**Action:** Set the geometry sub-type information correctly.

**0x511F8 ( 332280) ulERR_ABORT_ACS_INVALID_PARAMETER_RANGE Invalid parameter value.**

**Cause:** A parameter value was invalid.

**Action:** Check the parameter value.

**0x511F9 ( 332281) ulERR_ABORT_ACS_INVALID_GEOMETRY Invalid geometry value.**

**Cause:** A geometry value was invalid.

**Action:** Check the geometry value.

**0x511FA ( 332282) ulERR_ABORT_ACS_INVALID_GEOMETRY_BYTEORDER Invalid geometry byte order.**

**Cause:** The geometry byte order was invalid.

**Action:** Check the geometry byte order and consider calling ACSAdjustByteOrder.

**0x511FB ( 332283) ulERR_ABORT_ACS_NOT_APPLICABLE_GEOMETRY_TYPE Inapplicable geometry type**

**Cause:** The geometry type is not applicable.

**Action:** Check the geometry type.

**0x511FC ( 332284) ulERR_ABORT_ACS_INVALID_WKB Error parsing well-known-binary**

**Cause:** The specified well-known-binary is not correct.

**Action:** Check the well-known-binary.

**0x511FD ( 332285) ulERR_ABORT_UNSUPPORTED_FUNCTION Unsupported function.**

**Cause:** This function is not supported.

**Action:** Do not use this function.

**0x511FE ( 332286) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_USE_OF_BIND_TYPE Invalid use of bind type: <0%d>.**

**Cause:** The specified bind type has not been defined.

**Action:** Check the list of defined bind types and try again.

**0x511FF ( 332287) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_USE_OF_FIELD_TYPE Invalid use of field type: <0%d>.**

**Cause:** The specified field type has not been defined.

**Action:** Check the field type.

**0x51200 ( 332288) ulERR_ABORT_TOO_MANY_STATEMENT There are too many allocated statements.**

**Cause:** Too many statements are allocated.

**Action:** Remove unused statements.

**0x5120A ( 332298) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_INDICATOR Invalid indicator value.**

**Cause:** The indicator value was invalid.

**Action:** Initialize the indicator value.

**0x5120B ( 332299) ulERR_ABORT_FAIL_OBTAIN_ERROR_INFORMATION failed to obtain error information.**

**Cause:** Failed to obtain error information.

**Action:** Contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x51201 ( 332289) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_BOOKMARK_VALUE Invalid bookmark value**

**Cause:** FetchOrientation is SQL_FETCH_BOOKMARK, but the SQL_ATTR_FETCH_BOOKMARK_PTR value is NULL or invalid.

**Action:** Check your application.

**0x51204 ( 332292) ulERR_ABORT_RESTRICTED_DATATYPE_VIOLATION_BOOKMARK_TYPE Restricted data type attribute violation**

**Cause:** Column 0 is bound with SQL_C_BOOKMARK when SQL_ATTR_USE_BOOKMARKS value is SQL_UB_VARIABLE, or is bound with SQL_C_VARBOOKMARK when SQL_ATTR_USE_BOOKMARKS value is not SQL_UB_VARIABLE.

**Action:** Set SQL_ATTR_USE_BOOKMARKS to SQL_UB_VARIABLE when binding Column 0 with SQL_C_VARBOOKMARK, or to SQL_UB_FIXED otherwise.

**0x51205 ( 332293) ulERR_ABORT_PROGRAM_TYPE_OUT_OF_RANGE Data type in program out of range**

**Cause:** ColumnNumber argument is 0 and TargetType does not match bookmark setting.

**Action:** Use SQL_C_VARBOOKMARK for a variable bookmark, or SQL_C_BOOKMARK for a static bookmark.

**0x51207 ( 332295) ulERR_ABORT_CURSOR_OP_CONFLICT Cursor operation conflict**

**Cause:** The target rows for the UPDATE or DELETE operation could not be found, or have already been updated or deleted.

**Action:** Refetch before executing UPDATE or DELETE, and do not execute UPDATE or DELETE on deleted rows.

**0x51208 ( 332296) ulERR_ABORT_DOES_NOT_MATCH_COLUMN_LIST Type and number of columns in derived table does not match column list**

**Cause:** The column on which to perform the operation could not be found.

**Action:** Check if the column is unbound, read-only, or if the length/indicator value is SQL_COLUMN_IGNORE.

**0x5120C ( 332300) ulERR_ABORT_SSL_OPERATION_FAILURE SSL operation failure. <0%s>**

**Cause:** SSL operation failure.

**Action:** Check the detailed error and take appropriate action.

**0x5120D ( 332301) ulERR_ABORT_SSL_LIBRARY_ERROR Failed to load the OpenSSL library - <0%s>**

**Cause:** Failed to open the library or load functions from the library.

**Action:** Check whether or not the library has been installed and set properly.

**0x5120E ( 332302) ulERR_ABORT_SSL_LINK_FAILURE SSL link failure. <0%s>**

**Cause:** SSL link failure.

**Action:** Check the detailed error code and take appropriate action.

**0x5121D ( 332317) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_ALTIBASE_SSL_PORT_NO Connection string does not have PORT_NO, and environment variable ALTIBASE_SSL_PORT_NO does not have a valid value : <0%s>.**

**Cause:** The connection type is SSL, but the connection string does not specify a PORT_NO. Further, the environment variable ALTIBASE_SSL_PORT_NO is not valid.

**Action:** Set the ALTIBASE_SSL_PORT_NO environment variable correctly. Or specify PORT_NO in the connection string.

**0x5121E ( 332318) ulERR_ABORT_PORT_NO_ALTIBASE_SSL_PORT_NO_NOT_SET Neither PORT_NO in the connection string nor the ALTIBASE_SSL_PORT_NO environment variable has been set.**

**Cause:** A port has not been set.

**Action:** Set the port with a connection string or the ALTIBASE_SSL_PORT_NO environment variable.

**0x51210 ( 332304) ulERR_ABORT_IPCDA_MESSAGE_TOO_LONG Exceeding message size for maximum size of IPCDA buffer(<0%d>).**

**Cause:** The message to convey exceeds the maximum size of IPCDA buffer.

**Action:** Use another connection type.

**0x51211 ( 332305) ulERR_ABORT_IPCDA_UNSUPPORTED_FUNCTION Unsupported function for IPCDA.**

**Cause:** The function is not supported in IPCDA.

**Action:** Use another connection type.

**0x51212 ( 332306) ulERR_ABORT_IPCDA_UNSUPPORTED_SQL_DATA_TYPE Unsupported SQL data type(<0%d>) for IPCDA.**

**Cause:** Unsupported SQL data type in IPCDA was used.

**Action:** Use another connection type.

**0x51213 ( 332307) ulERR_ABORT_IPCDA_UNSUPPORTED_C_DATA_TYPE Unsupported C data type(<0%d>) for IPCDA.**

**Cause:** Unsupported C data type in IPCDA was used.

**Action:** Use another connection type. # IB

**0x5121A ( 332314) ulERR_ABORT_INVALID_ALTIBASE_IB_PORT_NO Connection string does not have PORT_NO, and environment variable ALTIBASE_IB_PORT_NO does not have a valid value : <0%s>.**

**Cause:** The connection type is IB, but the connection string does not specify a PORT_NO. Further, the environment variable ALTIBASE_IB_PORT_NO is not valid.

**Action:** Set the ALTIBASE_IB_PORT_NO environment variable correctly. Or specify PORT_NO in the connection string.

**0x5121B ( 332315) ulERR_ABORT_PORT_NO_ALTIBASE_IB_PORT_NO_NOT_SET Neither PORT_NO in the connection string nor the ALTIBASE_IB_PORT_NO environment variable has been set.**

**Cause:** A port has not been set.

**Action:** Set the port with a connection string or the ALTIBASE_IB_PORT_NO environment variable.

**0x5121C ( 332316) ulERR_ABORT_IB_RCONNECT_INVALIDARG Invalid rconnect() argument.**

**Cause:** An argument for the rconnect() function was invalid.

**Action:** Check the IP and host name.

### IGNORE

**0x52000 ( 335872) ulERR_IGNORE_NO_ERROR Success**

**Cause:** This is not an error.

**Action:** You can ignore this error message.

**0x52011 ( 335889) ulERR_IGNORE_OPTION_VALUE_CHANGED Option value changed. <0%s>.**

**Cause:** The set option value has been changed.

**Action:** Check the option value.

**0x52027 ( 335911) ulERR_IGNORE_RIGHT_TRUNCATED String data right-truncated.**

**Cause:** The buffer was not large enough to return the entire string.

**Action:** Check the buffer size.

**0x52046 ( 335942) ulERR_IGNORE_FRACTIONAL_TRUNCATION Fractional truncation.**

**Cause:** The data returned for an input/output or output parameter was truncated.

**Action:** Contact Altibase’s Support Center ([http://support.altibase.com/en/](http://support.altibase.com/en/)).

**0x52063 ( 335971) ulERR_IGNORE_CONNECTION_STR_IGNORED Connection string pair [<0%s> = {<1%s>};] ignored.**

**Cause:** The connection string keyword is invalid or has no value.

**Action:** Check the keyword or value.

**0x5206F ( 335983) ulERR_IGNORE_FETCH_BEFORE_RESULTSET A fetch attempt made before the result set returned the first rowset.**

**Cause:** A fetch was attempted before the result set returned the first rowset.

**Action:** You may safely ignore this error.

**0x52087 ( 336007) ulERR_IGNORE_VALUE_TOO_BIG The value is too big to fit in the parameter variable.**

**Cause:** The rowcount value exceeds the out parameter maximum value.

**Action:** You may safely ignore this error.

**0x5208C ( 336012) ulERR_IGNORE_PASSWORD_GRACE_PERIOD The password will expire within <0%d> day(s).**

**Cause:** The password expiration date is approaching.

**Action:** Change your password.

**0x52202 ( 336386) ulERR_IGNORE_HOLE_DETECTED Delete or update hole detected**

**Cause:** A row in the result table is missing or changed.

**Action:** Check the indicator variable and handle the hole accordingly.

**0x52203 ( 336387) ulERR_IGNORE_HOLE_DETECTED_BUT_NO_INDICATOR Hole detected but no indicator variable provided**

**Cause:** A hole was found in the result table, but no row status indicator variable was provided.

**Action:** Set row-status indicator variables.

**0x52206 ( 336390) ulERR_IGNORE_ERROR_IN_ROW Error(s) in row(s)**

**Cause:** One or more rows could not be processed.

**Action:** Check the error information.

**0x5220F (336399) ulERR_IGNORE_CANNOT_BE_PREFETCHED_ASYNC Synchronous prefetch is executed since the asynchronous prefetch failed.**

**Cause:** Other statement is performing asynchronous prefetch.

**Action:** Retry asynchronous prefetch after closing the cursor of statement.



