# 2. Altibase Components

-----------------

This chapter describes the major components of Altibase. After installing the Altibase package, the user can check out components such as the binary section and the programming library section.

### Altibase Directories

When Altibase is installed, the following directories are created. The location of the Altibase home directory is saved in the environment variable ALTIBASE_HOME. The bin, conf, lib, include, msg, dbs, logs, sample, install, altiComp, trc, admin and arch_logs directories can all be found in this directory.

This section describes the purpose and contents of each of these directories.

#### APatch Directory

This directory contains information about Altibase installation and patches. It also contains information about the environment Altibase product was built, logs written during the installation and files required to rollback the patches. For more detailed information, please refer to the *[Altibase Installation Guide](https://github.com/ALTIBASE/Documents/blob/master/Manuals/Altibase_7.3/eng/Installation%20Guide.md#apatch-directory).*

#### admin Directory

This directory contains the adminview.sql script file, which creates views related to Altibase system information, as well as other script files for creating stored procedures that are used to view information related to tables, stored procedures, and replication objects. For more detailed information, please refer to the *[Altibase Installation Guide](https://github.com/ALTIBASE/Documents/blob/master/Manuals/Altibase_7.3/eng/Installation%20Guide.md#apatch-directory).*

#### altiComp Directory

This directory contains sample script files for the altiComp feature which synchronizes mismatching data during replication.

For more detailed information about the altiComp utility, please refer to the *[Utilities Manual](https://github.com/ALTIBASE/Documents/blob/master/Manuals/Altibase_7.3/eng/Utilities%20Manual.md#2-alticomp)*.

#### altiMon Directory

This directory contains xml configuration files, shell scripts, sql files, log directories required to run altiMon(Altibase Monitoring Daemon). For more information about the subdirectories, please refer to the *[Utilities Manual](https://github.com/ALTIBASE/Documents/blob/master/Manuals/Altibase_7.3/eng/Utilities%20Manual.md#altimon)*.

#### arch_logs Directory

This directory contains archive log file. The location and name of this directory can be specified and changed in the altibase.properties file according to the user environment.

#### bin Directory

This directory contains the Altibase management tool (including the Altibase executable file) and the executable file for the user support tool.

The bin directory contains the following files:

```
aexport, altiAudit, altibase, altierr, altimon.sh, altipasswd, altiPofile,
altiComp, checkServer, dumpbi, dumpct, dumpdb, dumpddf, dumpla, dumplf, iloader,
isql, killCheckServer, server, apre
```

For more detailed information on iloader, isql and apre, please refer to the *[iLoader User's Manual](https://github.com/ALTIBASE/Documents/blob/master/Manuals/Altibase_7.3/eng/iLoader%20User's%20Manual.md), [iSQL User's Manual](https://github.com/ALTIBASE/Documents/blob/master/Manuals/Altibase_7.3/eng/iSQL%20User's%20Manual.md)*, and *[Precompiler User's Manual](https://github.com/ALTIBASE/Documents/blob/master/Manuals/Altibase_7.3/eng/Precompiler%20User%E2%80%99s%20Manual.md)*.

For more detailed information about other utilities, please refer to the *[Utilities Manual](https://github.com/ALTIBASE/Documents/blob/master/Manuals/Altibase_7.3/eng/Utilities%20Manual.md)*.

#### conf Directory

This directory contains the following files:

-   altibase_user.env: the file for setting the environment variables necessary for running Altibase
-   altibase.properties: the configuration file for Altibase. For more detailed information on the configurable properties, please refer to the *[General Reference-1.Data Types & Altibase Properties](https://github.com/ALTIBASE/Documents/blob/master/Manuals/Altibase_7.3/eng/General%20Reference-1.Data%20Types%20%26%20Altibase%20Properties.md#2-altibase-properties)*.
-   license: the Altibase license file
-   dblink.conf: the configuration file for database link. For more detailed information on the configurable properties, please refer to the *[General Reference-1.Data Types & Altibase Properties](https://github.com/ALTIBASE/Documents/blob/master/Manuals/Altibase_7.3/eng/General%20Reference-1.Data%20Types%20%26%20Altibase%20Properties.md#database-link-properties)*.
-   aexport.properties: the configuration file for aexport. For more detailed information on the configurable properties, please refer to the *[Utilities Manual](https://github.com/ALTIBASE/Documents/blob/master/Manuals/Altibase_7.3/eng/Utilities%20Manual.md#list-of-aexport-properties)*.
-   syspassword: the file password of sys user is stored. For more detailed information on how to use this file, please refer to the *[Utilities Manual](https://github.com/ALTIBASE/Documents/blob/master/Manuals/Altibase_7.3/eng/Utilities%20Manual.md#altipasswd)*.

#### dbs Directory

When using the default values, database files are created in this directory. The location and name of this directory must be specified in the altibase.properties file.

By default, system memory tablespace is created and saved in SYS_TBS_MEM_DATA, meta tables are saved in SYS_TBS_MEM_DIC, disk tablespace is created and saved in system001.dbf, and query results that are temporarily needed while queries are being executed are saved in temp001.dbf.

Previous image information that is needed for SQL statement execution and restoration is saved in the undo001.dbf file. Disk pages are temporarily saved in *.dwf files, which are double-write buffer files.

#### include Directory

This directory contains the header files required when writing an application program using the Altibase CLI libraries.

##### alaAPI.h

An API header file that is used by the Altibase Log Analyzer.

##### sqlcli.h

A header file that is needed in order to create client applications.

##### sqltypes.h

This file contains information on basic data types that is needed when developing client applications that use ODBC.

##### sqlucode.h

The header file that defines Unicode.

##### ulpLibInterface.h

This file contains information on the structure of error-handling SQL statements for use when developing applications using the C/C++ Precompiler.

#### install Directory

This directory contains an altibase_env.mk file and a README file that contain macro settings for makefiles needed to write Altibase application.

#### lib Directory

This directory contains an application development library for developing client applications and contains the following files. For more detailed information on how to write applications using these library files, please refer to the *[Getting Started Guide](https://github.com/ALTIBASE/Documents/blob/master/Manuals/Altibase_7.3/eng/Getting%20Started%20Guide.md)*.

##### Altibase.jar

This is the JDBC driver for accessing Altibase via Java applications. This is a Type 4 driver, and is thus a Pure Java driver. For more detailed information, please refer to the *[JDBC User’s Manual](https://github.com/ALTIBASE/Documents/blob/master/Manuals/Altibase_7.3/eng/JDBC%20User's%20Manual.md)*.

##### libapre.a

This library is needed in order to create embedded SQL programs. For more detailed information on writing embedded SQL programs, please refer to the *[Precompiler User’s Manual](https://github.com/ALTIBASE/Documents/blob/master/Manuals/Altibase_7.3/eng/Precompiler%20User's%20Manual.md)*.

##### libodbccli.a

This library is used when authoring Altibase CLI applications. For more detailed information, please refer to the *[CLI User’s Manual](https://github.com/ALTIBASE/Documents/blob/master/Manuals/Altibase_7.3/eng/CLI%20User's%20Manual.md)*.

##### libalticapi.a

This library is used when writing Altibase ACI applications. For more detailed information, please refer to the *[ACI User’s Manual](https://github.com/ALTIBASE/Documents/blob/master/Manuals/Altibase_7.3/eng/Altibase%20C%20Interface%20Manual.md)*.

##### libaltibase_odbc-64bit-ul64.so

This is the Altibase ODBC driver that can be used in Unix-like operating systems. Depending on the installation package and the operating system, the file extension and file name can be different. For more detailed information, please refer to the *[ODBC User’s Manual](https://github.com/ALTIBASE/Documents/blob/master/Manuals/Altibase_7.3/eng/ODBC%20User's%20Manual.md)*.

##### Others

-   libaltibaseMonitor.a: the library for the Monitoring API of Altibase. Please refer to the *[Monitoring API Developer’s Guide](https://github.com/ALTIBASE/Documents/blob/master/Manuals/Altibase_7.3/eng/Monitoring%20API%20Developer's%20Guide.md)*.
-   libchksvr.a: the library for the CheckServer API of Altibase. Please refer to the *[API User’s Manual](https://github.com/ALTIBASE/Documents/blob/master/Manuals/Altibase_7.3/eng/API%20User's%20Manual.md)*.
-   libiloader.a: the library for the Altibase iLoader API. Please refer to the *[API User’s Manual](https://github.com/ALTIBASE/Documents/blob/master/Manuals/Altibase_7.3/eng/API%20User's%20Manual.md)*.
-   libsesc.a: this is provided for backward compatibility and is identical to libapre.a.

#### logs Directory

This directory contains log anchor files and log files.
The location and name of this directory must be specified in the altibase.properties file. The log anchor file name and the log file name are automatically set by Altibase. However, in order to be prepared in the event of an error in the file system containing the log anchor files, it is nevertheless recommended that the relevant properties be changed, and that individual log anchor files be located on different file systems. do_not_remove_log_files, never_remove_log_files are dummy files preventing log files from getting deleted.

#### msg Directory

This directory contains the following error message files. Although two message files exist in character sets US7ASCII and KO16KSC5601 for each module, the error messages inside the file are only provided in English.

##### E_SM_US7ASCII.msb

This file contains error messages pertaining to the Data Storage Manager.

##### E_QP_US7ASCII.msb

This file contains error messages pertaining to the Query Processor.

##### E_MM_US7ASCII.msb

This file contains error messages pertaining to the Altibase server main module.

##### E_CM_US7ASCII.msb

This file contains error messages pertaining to the Altibase communication module.

##### E_RP_US7ASCII.msb

This file contains error messages pertaining to the Altibase replication module.

##### E_ST_US7ASCII.msb

This file contains error messages pertaining to the Altibase spatial module.

##### E_DK_US7ASCII.msb

This file contains error messages pertaining to the Altibase database link module.

##### E_ID_US7ASCII.msb, E_MT_US7ASCII.msb

This file contains error messages pertaining to function execution or data types.

#### packages Directory

This directory contains system defined stored packages and catproc.sql file which is a script used to create the packages at once. For more information about the system defined stored packages, please refer to the Altibase Stored Packages in *[Stored Procedures Manual](https://github.com/ALTIBASE/Documents/blob/master/Manuals/Altibase_7.3/eng/Stored%20Procedures%20Manual.md#13-altibase-system-defined-stored-packages)*.

#### sample Directory

This directory contains sample Altibase applications.

It contains source code and Makefiles for programs written using the JDBC, ODBC, and C/C++ Precompiler libraries.

#### thirdparty

This directory contains scripts or libraries required when using 3rd parties.

#### trc Directory

This directory contains trace files in which information of Altibase operation is written. Each internal module is written in its corresponding trace file as follows:

##### altibase_boot.log

The operating state of the Altibase server is recorded in this file. The information recorded in this file includes system details obtained when Altibase is started up and shut down.

##### altibase_error.log

The error messages which occur on the server are recorded in this file. Also, the process call stack is recorded when Altibase shuts down abnormally.

##### altibase_trc.log

Warnings and trace messages that are printed after Altibase has started are written to this file. Messages for threads of the same process are written in consecutive order.

##### altibase_dump.log

The working memory at the time the Altibase process is abnormally terminated is dumped to this file. This file is used to diagnose and debug Altibase program errors.

##### altibase_sm.log 

Warnings and trace messages pertaining to the storage manger module are written to this file.

##### altibase_rp.log

Warnings and trace messages pertaining to the replication module are written to this file.

##### altibase_qp.log

Warnings and trace messages pertaining to the Query Processor are written to this file.

##### altibase_mm.log

Warnings and trace messages pertaining to the Altibase server main module are written to this file.

##### altibase_cm.log

Warning messages and trace messages pertaining to the communication module are written to this file.

##### altibase_lb.log

Warning messages and trace messages pertaining to the load balancer are written to this file.

##### altibase_snmp.log

Warning messages and trace messages pertaining to the SNMP are written to this file.

##### altibase_dk.log

Warning messages and trace messages pertaining to the database link module are written to this file.

##### altibase_ipc.log

The resource information created when connecting with IPC is written to this file.

##### altibase_ipcda.log

The resource information created when connecting with IPCDA is written to this file.

##### altibase_xa.log

Warnings and trace messages pertaining to the global transactions processed on Altibase using the XA interface are written to this file.

##### killCheckServer.log

Execution results of the killCheckServer utility are written to this file.

### Executable Binaries

For more detailed information on these binary files other than those described here, please refer to the [*Utilities Manual.*](https://github.com/ALTIBASE/Documents/blob/master/Manuals/Altibase_7.3/eng/Utilities%20Manual.md)

#### aexport

This is a tool that is used to achieve a sequence of tasks that must be conducted when upgrading Altibase to a new version. This program automatically creates SQL script files, iSQL executable shell files, and iLoader executable shell files pertaining to all database objects and users.

#### altibase

This is the server that is used when Altibase is executed in a client-server architecture scheme.

#### altierr

This is a tool that finds and outputs detailed information about Altibase error codes.

#### altimon.sh

This is a shell script program that monitors the Altibase server process.

#### altiProfile

This is a utility that collects statistical data (e.g. number of executions, execution time) about SQL statements.

#### altipasswd

This tool is for changing the password of the sys account.

#### altiComp

The altiComp feature compares the tables of two databases, to print information about mis- matching data and synchronize the databases.

For more detailed information, please refer to the *[Utilities Manual](https://github.com/ALTIBASE/Documents/blob/master/Manuals/Altibase_7.3/eng/Utilities%20Manual.md#2-alticomp)*.

#### checkServer

This is a utility for executing script files to check the status of Altibase and perform tasks that must be fulfilled when Altibase terminates abnormally.

#### dumpla

This tool outputs and examines the contents of Altibase log anchor files.

#### dumplf

This tool outputs and examines the contents of Altibase log files.

#### iloader

This tool is for uploading and downloading particular database tables.
For detailed information on this tool, please refer to the *[iLoader User’s Manual](https://github.com/ALTIBASE/Documents/blob/master/Manuals/Altibase_7.3/eng/iLoader%20User's%20Manual.md)*.

#### isql

This is a tool for interactively executing database queries.
For more detailed information on this tool, please refer to the *[iSQL User’s Manual](https://github.com/ALTIBASE/Documents/blob/master/Manuals/Altibase_7.3/eng/iSQL%20User's%20Manual.md)*.

#### killCheckServer

This tool terminates execution of the checkServer utility.

#### server

This is a shell script program that is used to start up, shut down, or restart the Altibase server.

#### apre

This application is used for precompiling applications written in C/C++ that contain embedded SQL statements.

For more detailed information on this tool, please refer to the *[Precompiler User’s Manual](https://github.com/ALTIBASE/Documents/blob/master/Manuals/Altibase_7.3/eng/Precompiler%20User's%20Manual.md)*.

### Altibase Libraries

The following are the components required when developing application programs using Altibase:

-   C or C++ programming libraries

-   Library that provides the Altibase CLI interface (libodbccli.a)

-   Java class library (Altibase.jar) for programming in the Java Language

-   Header files for programming

This is explained in detail in the *[Getting Started Guide](https://github.com/ALTIBASE/Documents/blob/master/Manuals/Altibase_7.3/eng/Getting%20Started%20Guide.md)*.

