# 1. Altibase Installation

-------------

This chapter provides only an overview of the Altibase installation procedure. For the complete instruction on how to install Altibase server, it is strongly recommended to refer to the "Altibase Installation Guide".

This chapter contains the following sections:

-   Installation Process

-   Special Considerations

### Installation Process

#### Download the Package Installer.

Visit Altibase Customer Service Portal (http://support.altibase.com/en/) and download the installer that is suitable for your operation system.

For more detailed information on the package installer files, please refer to Chapter 2 "Installing Products with the Altibase Package Installer" in the Installation Guide.

#### Run the Package Installer

For more detailed information on how to execute the package installer, please refer to Chapter 2 "Installation Products with the Altibase Package Installer" in the *Installation Guide*.

When the package installer is executed, the following tasks are performed automatically:

##### Create the ALTIBASE_HOME Directory

This is the directory that contains the executable files, configuration files, and library files. The package installer gives you the opportunity to select the directory to install ALTIBASE_HOME/conf/altibase properties files.

##### Set the Altibase Property Values

The package installer shows the default property settings and lets you change them to the desired values. After the installation is complete, these properties can be changed by modifying the $ALTIBASE_HOME/conf/altibase.properties. 

##### Create a Database Creation Script

The package installer can create a script that you can later execute to create a database automatically, which greatly simplifies the database creation disk.

#### Create a Database

After the installation is complete, it is necessary to create a database.

If a database was not created during the installation, you must create the database as follows:

- If you have set the properties for creating the database during the installation, you can
  create the database by executing $ALTIBASE_HOME/install/post_install.sh script:
  
- ```
  $ sh post_install.sh dbcreate
  ```


- If you have not set the properties during the installation, you can create the database by
  executing $ALTIBASE_HOME/bin/server script with arguments as follows:
  
- ```
  $ server create utf8 utf8
  ```


### Considerations When Installing Altibase

##### Configuring Kernel Parameters

If the system kernel parameters were not set during installation, please set the kernel parameters manually by referring to the following manuals:

-   Installation Guide: Chapter 2 > Installing Products with the Altibase Package Installer >
Check System Parameters
-   Installation Guide: Appendix A > Setting Kernel Parameters for Different Operating
    Systems

To set system kernel parameters, log in as the root user.



