# 1. Introduction to altiShapeLoader

This chapter explains system requirements, installation, and environment configuration for altiShapeLoader.

### Overview

altiShapeLoader is a tool used to import and export shapefile<sup>[1](#shapefile)</sup>, which is programmed based on GeoTools, open-source library based on Java.

Importing shapefile means inserting spatial data information such as coordinate information and property information from a shapefile into a Altibase database table. Exporting shapefile means creating a shapefile using spatial data information stored in Altibase database table.

### altiShapeLoader Version

The version of altiShapeLoader is 1.0. Version information can be found in the version.info file under the installation directory.

### System Requirements

System requirements to install and run altiShapeLoader and Altibase server version that is compatible with altiShapeLoader are as belows.

#### Hardware Requirements

- Main memory: Minimum 512MB, 4GB or more recommended
- Disk: More than 20MB of free space for installation

#### Software Requirements

- Java: Oracle, OpenJDK or IBM Java Runtime Environment 8 or higher
- OS: 64bit OS Java can be installed and run

#### Compatible Altibase version

- Altibase 7.1 or higher

### Installing and Removing

#### Installing altiShapeLoader

Download altiShapeLoader-1.0.zip from http://support.altibase.com/en/product. Unzip the file where altiShapeLoader will be run and check the altiShapeLoader directory.

altiShapeLoader directory contains following files.

```
[altibase@ /data/altibase/altiShapeLoader]$ ls -l
-rw-rw-r-- 1 altibase altibase 27438 2021-10-08 13:19 Altibase_altiShapeLoader_1_0_Release_Notes.pdf
-rw-r--r-- 1 altibase altibase  1318 2021-10-08 11:27 altiShapeLoader.bat
-rw-r--r-- 1 altibase altibase  1177 2021-10-08 11:27 altiShapeLoader.properties.release
-rw-rw-r-- 1 altibase altibase   867 2021-10-08 11:27 altiShapeLoader.sh
-rw-r--r-- 1 altibase altibase   798 2021-10-08 11:27 epsg.properties
drwxr-xr-x 2 altibase altibase  4096 2021-10-08 11:27 lib
drwxr-xr-x 2 altibase altibase  4096 2021-10-08 11:27 license
-rw-r--r-- 1 altibase altibase   560 2021-10-08 11:27 log4j2.xml
```

##### Execution File

If the server running altiShapeLoader is in the Windows environment, choose altiShapeLoader.bat and if it is in the Unix/Linux environment, choose altiShapeLoader.sh.

#### altiShapeLoader Configuration

##### JAVA_HOME Environment Variables

JAVA_HOME environment variables has to be set up since altiShapeLoader is programmed with Java. Please refer to [system requirements](#system-requirements) to check the java version required to run altiShapeLoader.

```
$ export JAVA_HOME=/usr/java/1.8
$ $JAVA_HOME/bin/java -version
java version "1.8.0_101"
Java(TM) SE Runtime Environment (build 1.8.0_101-b13)
Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM (build 25.101-b13, mixed mode)
```

##### altiShapeLoader Configuration File (altiShapeLoader.properties)

altiShapeLoader configuration file (altiShapeLoader.properties) is required when running altiShapeLoader. Create the file by duplicating altiShapeLoader.properties.release in the altiShapeLoader directory and edit according to the use.

```
$ cd altiShapeLoader
$ cp -p altiShapeLoader.properties.release altiShapeLoader.properties
```

#### Removing altiShapeLoader

Remove altiShapeLoader directory.

```
$ rm -fr altiShapeLoader
```

<br>

