# 2. Installing the Altibase Hadoop Connector

This chapter explains how to install the Altibase Hadoop Connector and required software.

### Software Requirements

The following software must be installed in order to install and run the Altibase Hadoop Connector.

-   JRE (Java Runtime Environment) or JDK (Java Development Kit) version 1.6 or later
    
-   Hadoop Version 1.0

-   Sqoop version 1.4.4 or later

-   Altibase version 5.0 or later

This section describes how to install the Hadoop and Swap required to run the Altibase Hadoop connector. In addition, it describes how to install the Altibase JDBC driver in Hadoop and Scan environment for interworking with the Altibase server.

#### Installing Hadoop

Install Hadoop in the following order and set the Hadoop operating environment.

1.  Go to<https://www.cloudera.com/content/support/en/downloads.html>, download Hadoop version 1.0.
    
2.  Install Hadoop according to teh Hadoop installation method provided by [http://www.cloudera/com], and set environment variables such as HADOOP_HOME.

#### Installing Sqoop

The Altibase Hadoop Connector is based on Apache Sqoop, which is distributed under the Apache License version 2.0. 

Install Sqoop in the following order and install the Altibase JDBC driver into the Sqoop environment to enable sqoop to connect to Altibase.

1.  Download the Sqoop (package Sqoop-1.4.4.bin_hadoop-1.0.0.tar.gz) that supports Hadoop 1.0 from http://Mirror.apache-kr.org/sqoop/1.4.4. The current Altibase Hadoop Connector officially supports Sqoop 1.4.4 (Sqoop 1.9 will be supported soon).
    
2.  Install Sqoop using the installation manual from the Sqoop homepage

#### Installing the JDBC Driver

If both Hadoop and Scoop are installed, follow the instruction below to install the JDBC driver.

##### When using Altibase

1.  Copy the JDBC driver file for Altibase ($ALTIBASE_HOME/lib/Altibase.jar) to the $SQOOP_HOME/lib.

```
% cp $ALTIBASE_HOME/lib/Altibase.jar $SQOOP_HOME/lib
```

### Installing the Altibase Hadoop Connector

Install the Altibase Hadoop Connector in the following order:

1.  Download the Altibase Hadoop Connector Package from http://altibase.com/supportcenter/en/.

​        Package for Altibase: altibase_sqoop14_connector.jar

2. Copy the Altibase Hadoop connector package to $SQOOP_HOME/lib.

### Executing & Testing

The following is a command which retrieves the table list from the Altibase server and can check whether or not the Altibase Hadoop Connector is installed properly.

```
% sqoop list-tables  
--connect jdbc:Altibase://127.0.0.1:20300/mydb  
--driver Altibase.jdbc.driver.AltibaseDriver  
--username SYS  
--password MANAGER  
--connection-manager com.altibase.sqoop.manager.AltibaseManager
```

If the following table list is printed out with the log below after execution, it means that the Altibase Hadoop Connector has been loaded properly.

```
13/10/02 13:48:15 INFO manager.AltibaseManager: init default option autocommit false
13/10/02 13:48:15 INFO manager.SqlManager: Using default fetchSize of 1000
13/10/02 13:48:15 INFO manager.AltibaseManager: Altibase manager 1.0 connector create
```